	narrator	The funeral was arranged for the next succeeding day, so that Lucy and her mother might be buried together.
	narrator	I attended to all the ghastly formalities, and the urbane undertaker proved that his staff were afflicted--or blessed--with something of his own obsequious suavity.
	narrator	Even the woman who performed the last offices for the dead remarked to me, in a confidential,
	narrator	brother-professional way, when she had come out from the death-chamber:
	the undertaker	She makes a very beautiful corpse, sir. It's quite a privilege to attend on her. It's not too much to say that she will do credit to our establishment!
	narrator	I noticed that Van Helsing never kept far away. This was possible from the disordered state of things in the household.
	narrator	There were no relatives at hand; and as Arthur had to be back the next day to attend at his father's funeral,
	narrator	we were unable to notify any one who should have been bidden. Under the circumstances, Van Helsing and I took it upon ourselves to examine papers,
	narrator	etc. He insisted upon looking over Lucy's papers himself. I asked him why, for I feared that he,
	narrator	being a foreigner, might not be quite aware of English legal requirements, and so might in ignorance make some unnecessary trouble.
	narrator	He answered me:
	van helsing	I know; I know. You forget that I am a lawyer as well as a doctor.
	van helsing	But this is not altogether for the law. You knew that, when you avoided the coroner.
	van helsing	I have more than him to avoid. There may be papers more--such as this.
	narrator	As he spoke he took from his pocket-book the memorandum which had been in Lucy's breast,
	narrator	and which she had torn in her sleep.
	van helsing	When you find anything of the solicitor who is for the late Mrs. Westenra, seal all her papers,
	van helsing	and write him to-night. For me, I watch here in the room and in Miss Lucy's old room all night,
	van helsing	and I myself search for what may be. It is not well that her very thoughts go into the hands of strangers.
	narrator	I went on with my part of the work, and in another half hour had found the name and address of Mrs. Westenra's solicitor and had written to him.
	narrator	All the poor lady's papers were in order; explicit directions regarding the place of burial were given.
	narrator	I had hardly sealed the letter, when, to my surprise, Van Helsing walked into the room,
	narrator	saying:
	van helsing	Can I help you, friend John? I am free, and if I may, my service is to you.
	narrator	"Have you got what you looked for?" I asked, to which he replied:
	van helsing	I did not look for any specific thing. I only hoped to find, and find I have,
	van helsing	all that there was--only some letters and a few memoranda, and a diary new begun. But I have them here,
	van helsing	and we shall for the present say nothing of them. I shall see that poor lad to-morrow evening,
	van helsing	and, with his sanction, I shall use some.
	narrator	When we had finished the work in hand, he said to me:
	van helsing	And now, friend John, I think we may to bed. We want sleep, both you and I,
	van helsing	and rest to recuperate. To-morrow we shall have much to do, but for the to-night there is no need of us.
	van helsing	Alas!
	narrator	Before turning in we went to look at poor Lucy. The undertaker had certainly done his work well,
	narrator	for the room was turned into a small chapelle ardente. There was a wilderness of beautiful white flowers,
	narrator	and death was made as little repulsive as might be. The end of the winding-sheet was laid over the face; when the Professor bent over and turned it gently back,
	narrator	we both started at the beauty before us, the tall wax candles showing a sufficient light to note it well.
	narrator	All Lucy's loveliness had come back to her in death, and the hours that had passed,
	narrator	instead of leaving traces of "decay's effacing fingers," had but restored the beauty of life, till positively I could not believe my eyes that I was looking at a corpse.
	narrator	The Professor looked sternly grave. He had not loved her as I had, and there was no need for tears in his eyes.
	narrator	He said to me:
	van helsing	Remain till I return,
	narrator	and left the room. He came back with a handful of wild garlic from the box waiting in the hall,
	narrator	but which had not been opened, and placed the flowers amongst the others on and around the bed.
	narrator	Then he took from his neck, inside his collar, a little gold crucifix, and placed it over the mouth.
	narrator	He restored the sheet to its place, and we came away. I was undressing in my own room,
	narrator	when, with a premonitory tap at the door, he entered, and at once began to speak:
	van helsing	To-morrow I want you to bring me, before night, a set of post-mortem knives.
	dr. seward	Must we make an autopsy?
	van helsing	Yes and no. I want to operate, but not as you think. Let me tell you now,
	van helsing	but not a word to another. I want to cut off her head and take out her heart.
	van helsing	Ah! you a surgeon, and so shocked! You, whom I have seen with no tremble of hand or heart,
	van helsing	do operations of life and death that make the rest shudder. Oh, but I must not forget,
	van helsing	my dear friend John, that you loved her; and I have not forgotten it, for it is I that shall operate,
	van helsing	and you must only help. I would like to do it to-night, but for Arthur I must not; he will be free after his father's funeral to-morrow,
	van helsing	and he will want to see her--to see _it_. Then, when she is coffined ready for the next day,
	van helsing	you and I shall come when all sleep. We shall unscrew the coffin-lid, and shall do our operation: and then replace all,
	van helsing	so that none know, save we alone.
	dr. seward	But why do it at all? The girl is dead. Why mutilate her poor body without need?
	dr. seward	And if there is no necessity for a post-mortem and nothing to gain by it--no good to her,
	dr. seward	to us, to science, to human knowledge--why do it? Without such it is monstrous.
	narrator	For answer he put his hand on my shoulder, and said, with infinite tenderness:
	van helsing	Friend John, I pity your poor bleeding heart; and I love you the more because it does so bleed.
	van helsing	If I could, I would take on myself the burden that you do bear. But there are things that you know not,
	van helsing	but that you shall know, and bless me for knowing, though they are not pleasant things.
	van helsing	John, my child, you have been my friend now many years, and yet did you ever know me to do any without good cause?
	van helsing	I may err--I am but man; but I believe in all I do. Was it not for these causes that you send for me when the great trouble came?
	van helsing	Yes! Were you not amazed, nay horrified, when I would not let Arthur kiss his love--though she was dying--and snatched him away by all my strength?
	van helsing	Yes! And yet you saw how she thanked me, with her so beautiful dying eyes, her voice,
	van helsing	too, so weak, and she kiss my rough old hand and bless me? Yes! And did you not hear me swear promise to her,
	van helsing	that so she closed her eyes grateful? Yes! Well, I have good reason now for all I want to do.
	van helsing	You have for many years trust me; you have believe me weeks past, when there be things so strange that you might have well doubt.
	van helsing	Believe me yet a little, friend John. If you trust me not, then I must tell what I think; and that is not perhaps well.
	van helsing	And if I work--as work I shall, no matter trust or no trust--without my friend trust in me,
	van helsing	I work with heavy heart and feel, oh! so lonely when I want all help and courage that may be!
	van helsing	Friend John, there are strange and terrible days before us. Let us not be two, but one,
	van helsing	that so we work to a good end. Will you not have faith in me?
	narrator	I took his hand, and promised him. I held my door open as he went away,
	narrator	and watched him go into his room and close the door. As I stood without moving,
	narrator	I saw one of the maids pass silently along the passage--she had her back towards me,
	narrator	so did not see me--and go into the room where Lucy lay. The sight touched me.
	narrator	Devotion is so rare, and we are so grateful to those who show it unasked to those we love.
	narrator	Here was a poor girl putting aside the terrors which she naturally had of death to go watch alone by the bier of the mistress whom she loved,
	narrator	so that the poor clay might not be lonely till laid to eternal rest.... I must have slept long and soundly,
	narrator	for it was broad daylight when Van Helsing waked me by coming into my room.
	van helsing	You need not trouble about the knives; we shall not do it.
	dr. seward	Why not?
	narrator	For his solemnity of the night before had greatly impressed me.
	van helsing	Because, he said sternly, it is too late--or too early. See!
	narrator	Here he held up the little golden crucifix.
	van helsing	This was stolen in the night.
	dr. seward	How, stolen,
	narrator	I asked in wonder,
	dr. seward	since you have it now?
	van helsing	Because I get it back from the worthless wretch who stole it, from the woman who robbed the dead and the living.
	van helsing	Her punishment will surely come, but not through me; she knew not altogether what she did and thus unknowing,
	van helsing	she only stole. Now we must wait.
	narrator	He went away on the word, leaving me with a new mystery to think of, a new puzzle to grapple with.
	narrator	The forenoon was a dreary time, but at noon the solicitor came: Mr. Marquand, of Wholeman,
	narrator	Sons, Marquand & Lidderdale. He was very genial and very appreciative of what we had done,
	narrator	and took off our hands all cares as to details. During lunch he told us that Mrs. Westenra had for some time expected sudden death from her heart,
	narrator	and had put her affairs in absolute order; he informed us that, with the exception of a certain entailed property of Lucy's father's which now,
	narrator	in default of direct issue, went back to a distant branch of the family, the whole estate,
	narrator	real and personal, was left absolutely to Arthur Holmwood. When he had told us so much he went on:
	mr. marquand	Frankly we did our best to prevent such a testamentary disposition, and pointed out certain contingencies that might leave her daughter either penniless or not so free as she should be to act regarding a matrimonial alliance.
	mr. marquand	Indeed, we pressed the matter so far that we almost came into collision, for she asked us if we were or were not prepared to carry out her wishes.
	mr. marquand	Of course, we had then no alternative but to accept. We were right in principle, and ninety-nine times out of a hundred we should have proved,
	mr. marquand	by the logic of events, the accuracy of our judgment. Frankly, however, I must admit that in this case any other form of disposition would have rendered impossible the carrying out of her wishes.
	mr. marquand	For by her predeceasing her daughter the latter would have come into possession of the property,
	mr. marquand	and, even had she only survived her mother by five minutes, her property would, in case there were no will--and a will was a practical impossibility in such a case--have been treated at her decease as under intestacy.
	mr. marquand	In which case Lord Godalming, though so dear a friend, would have had no claim in the world; and the inheritors,
	mr. marquand	being remote, would not be likely to abandon their just rights, for sentimental reasons regarding an entire stranger.
	mr. marquand	I assure you, my dear sirs, I am rejoiced at the result, perfectly rejoiced.
	narrator	He was a good fellow, but his rejoicing at the one little part--in which he was officially interested--of so great a tragedy,
	narrator	was an object-lesson in the limitations of sympathetic understanding. He did not remain long, but said he would look in later in the day and see Lord Godalming.
	narrator	His coming, however, had been a certain comfort to us, since it assured us that we should not have to dread hostile criticism as to any of our acts.
	narrator	Arthur was expected at five o’clock, so a little before that time we visited the death-chamber.
	narrator	It was so in very truth, for now both mother and daughter lay in it. The undertaker,
	narrator	true to his craft, had made the best display he could of his goods, and there was a mortuary air about the place that lowered our spirits at once.
	van helsing	The former arrangement to be adhered to. Explaining that, as Lord Godalming was coming very soon,
	van helsing	it would be less harrowing to his feelings to see all that was left of his _fiancée_ quite alone.
	narrator	The undertaker seemed shocked at his own stupidity and exerted himself to restore things to the condition in which we left them the night before,
	narrator	so that when Arthur came such shocks to his feelings as we could avoid were saved.
	narrator	Poor fellow! He looked desperately sad and broken; even his stalwart manhood seemed to have shrunk somewhat under the strain of his much-tried emotions.
	narrator	He had, I knew, been very genuinely and devotedly attached to his father; and to lose him,
	narrator	and at such a time, was a bitter blow to him. With me he was warm as ever,
	narrator	and to Van Helsing he was sweetly courteous; but I could not help seeing that there was some constraint with him.
	narrator	The Professor noticed it, too, and motioned me to bring him upstairs. I did so, and left him at the door of the room,
	narrator	as I felt he would like to be quite alone with her, but he took my arm and led me in,
	narrator	saying huskily:
	arthur holmwood	You loved her too, old fellow; she told me all about it, and there was no friend had a closer place in her heart than you.
	arthur holmwood	I don’t know how to thank you for all you have done for her. I can’t think yet....
	narrator	Here he suddenly broke down, and threw his arms round my shoulders and laid his head on my breast,
	narrator	crying:
	arthur holmwood	Oh, Jack! Jack! What shall I do! The whole of life seems gone from me all at once,
	arthur holmwood	and there is nothing in the wide world for me to live for.
	narrator	I comforted him as well as I could. In such cases men do not need much expression.
	narrator	A grip of the hand, the tightening of an arm over the shoulder, a sob in unison,
	narrator	are expressions of sympathy dear to a man’s heart. I stood still and silent till his sobs died away,
	narrator	and then I said softy to him: Come and look at her. Together we moved over to the bed,
	narrator	and I lifted the lawn from her face. God! how beautiful she was. Every hour seemed to be enhancing her loveliness.
	narrator	It frightened and amazed me somewhat; and as for Arthur, he fell a-trembling, and finally was shaken with doubt as with an ague.
	narrator	At last, after a long pause, he said to me in a faint whisper:
	arthur holmwood	Jack, is she really dead?
	narrator	I assured him sadly that it was so, and went on to suggest--for I felt that such a horrible doubt should not have life for a moment longer than I could help--that it often happened that after death faces became softened and even resolved into their youthful beauty; that this
	narrator	was especially so when death had been preceded by any acute or prolonged suffering. It seemed to quite do away with any doubt,
	narrator	and, after kneeling beside the couch for a while and looking at her lovingly and long,
	narrator	he turned aside. I told him that that must be good-bye, as the coffin had to be prepared; so he went back and took her dead hand in his and kissed it,
	narrator	and bent over and kissed her forehead. He came away, fondly looking back over his shoulder at her as he came.
	narrator	I left him in the drawing-room, and told Van Helsing that he had said good-bye; so the latter went to the kitchen to tell the undertaker’s men to proceed with the preparations and to screw up the coffin.
	narrator	When he came out of the room again I told him of Arthur’s question, and he replied:
	van helsing	I am not surprised. Just now I doubted for a moment myself!
	narrator	We all dined together, and I could see that poor Art was trying to make the best of things.
	narrator	Van Helsing had been silent all dinner-time; but when we had lit our cigars he said--
	van helsing	Lord----
	arthur holmwood	No, no, not that, for God’s sake! not yet at any rate. Forgive me, sir: I did not mean to speak offensively; it is only because my loss is so recent.
	van helsing	I only used that name because I was in doubt. I must not call you ‘Mr.,’
	van helsing	and I have grown to love you--yes, my dear boy, to love you--as Arthur.
	arthur holmwood	Call me what you will. I hope I may always have the title of a friend.
	arthur holmwood	And let me say that I am at a loss for words to thank you for your goodness to my poor dear.
	arthur holmwood	I know that she understood your goodness even better than I do; and if I was rude or in any way wanting at that time you acted so--you remember
	van helsing	The Professor nodded.
	arthur holmwood	you must forgive me.
	van helsing	I know it was hard for you to quite trust me then, for to trust such violence needs to understand; and I take it that you do not--that you cannot--trust me now,
	van helsing	for you do not yet understand. And there may be more times when I shall want you to trust when you cannot--and may not--and must not yet understand.
	van helsing	But the time will come when your trust shall be whole and complete in me, and when you shall understand as though the sunlight himself shone through.
	van helsing	Then you shall bless me from first to last for your own sake, and for the sake of others and for her dear sake to whom I swore to protect.
	arthur holmwood	And, indeed, indeed, sir,
	van helsing	May I ask you something now?
	arthur holmwood	Certainly.
	mr. marquand	You know that Mrs. Westenra left you all her property?
	arthur holmwood	No, poor dear; I never thought of it.
	van helsing	And as it is all yours, you have a right to deal with it as you will.
	van helsing	I want you to give me permission to read all Miss Lucy's papers and letters. Believe me,
	van helsing	it is no idle curiosity. I have a motive of which, be sure, she would have approved.
	van helsing	I have them all here. I took them before we knew that all was yours, so that no strange hand might touch them--no strange eye look through words into her soul.
	van helsing	I shall keep them, if I may; even you may not see them yet, but I shall keep them safe.
	van helsing	No word shall be lost; and in the good time I shall give them back to you.
	van helsing	It's a hard thing I ask, but you will do it, will you not, for Lucy's sake?
	arthur holmwood	Dr. Van Helsing, you may do what you will. I feel that in saying this I am doing what my dear one would have approved.
	arthur holmwood	I shall not trouble you with questions till the time comes.
	van helsing	And you are right. There will be pain for us all; but it will not be all pain,
	van helsing	nor will this pain be the last. We and you too--you most of all, my dear boy--will have to pass through the bitter water before we reach the sweet.
	van helsing	But we must be brave of heart and unselfish, and do our duty, and all will be well!
	narrator	I slept on a sofa in Arthur's room that night. Van Helsing did not go to bed at all.
	narrator	He went to and fro, as if patrolling the house, and was never out of sight of the room where Lucy lay in her coffin,
	narrator	strewn with the wild garlic flowers, which sent, through the odour of lily and rose, a heavy,
	narrator	overpowering smell into the night. Mina Harker's Journal. 22 September.--In the train to Exeter. Jonathan sleeping.
	narrator	It seems only yesterday that the last entry was made, and yet how much between then,
	narrator	in Whitby and all the world before me, Jonathan away and no news of him; and now,
	narrator	married to Jonathan, Jonathan a solicitor, a partner, rich, master of his business, Mr. Hawkins dead and buried,
	narrator	and Jonathan with another attack that may harm him. Some day he may ask me about it.
	narrator	Down it all goes. I am rusty in my shorthand--see what unexpected prosperity does for us--so it may be as well to freshen it up again with an exercise anyhow....
	narrator	The service was very simple and very solemn. There were only ourselves and the servants there,
	narrator	one or two old friends of his from Exeter, his London agent, and a gentleman representing Sir John Paxton,
	narrator	the President of the Incorporated Law Society. Jonathan and I stood hand in hand, and we felt that our best and dearest friend was gone from us....
	narrator	We came back to town quietly, taking a 'bus to Hyde Park Corner. Jonathan thought it would interest me to go into the Row for a while,
	narrator	so we sat down; but there were very few people there, and it was sad-looking and desolate to see so many empty chairs.
	narrator	It made us think of the empty chair at home; so we got up and walked down Piccadilly.
	narrator	Jonathan was holding me by the arm, the way he used to in old days before I went to school.
	narrator	I felt it very improper, for you can't go on for some years teaching etiquette and decorum to other girls without the pedantry of it biting into yourself a bit; but it was Jonathan,
	narrator	and he was my husband, and we didn't know anybody who saw us--and we didn't care if they did--so on we walked.
	narrator	I was looking at a very beautiful girl, in a big cart-wheel hat, sitting in a victoria outside Guiliano's,
	narrator	when I felt Jonathan clutch my arm so tight that he hurt me, and he said under his breath: 'My God!'
	narrator	I am always anxious about Jonathan, for I fear that some nervous fit may upset him again; so I turned to him quickly,
	narrator	and asked him what it was that disturbed him. He was very pale, and his eyes seemed bulging out as,
	narrator	half in terror and half in amazement, he gazed at a tall, thin man, with a beaky nose and black moustache and pointed beard,
	narrator	who was also observing the pretty girl. He was looking at her so hard that he did not see either of us,
	narrator	and so I had a good view of him. His face was not a good face; it was hard,
	narrator	and cruel, and sensual, and his big white teeth, that looked all the whiter because his lips were so red,
	narrator	were pointed like an animal's. Jonathan kept staring at him, till I was afraid he would notice.
	narrator	I feared he might take it ill, he looked so fierce and nasty. I asked Jonathan why he was disturbed,
	narrator	and he answered, evidently thinking that I knew as much about it as he did: 'Do you see who it is?
	mina harker	No, dear,
	narrator	'I don't know him; who is it?' His answer seemed to shock and thrill me, for it was said as if he did not know that it was to me,
	narrator	Mina, to whom he was speaking:
	arthur holmwood	It is the man himself!
	narrator	The poor dear was evidently terrified at something--very greatly terrified; I do believe that if he had not had me to lean on and to support him he would have sunk down.
	narrator	He kept staring; a man came out of the shop with a small parcel, and gave it to the lady,
	narrator	who then drove off. The dark man kept his eyes fixed on her, and when the carriage moved up Piccadilly he followed in the same direction,
	narrator	and hailed a hansom. Jonathan kept looking after him, and said, as if to himself: 'I believe it is the Count,
	narrator	but he has grown young. My God, if this be so! Oh, my God! my God!
	narrator	If I only knew! if I only knew!' He was distressing himself so much that I feared to keep his mind on the subject by asking him any questions,
	narrator	so I remained silent. I drew him away quietly, and he, holding my arm, came easily.
	narrator	We walked a little further, and then went in and sat for a while in the Green Park.
	narrator	It was a hot day for autumn, and there was a comfortable seat in a shady place.
	narrator	After a few minutes' staring at nothing, Jonathan's eyes closed, and he went quietly into a sleep,
	narrator	with his head on my shoulder. I thought it was the best thing for him, so did not disturb him.
	narrator	In about twenty minutes he woke up, and said to me quite cheerfully: “Why, Mina, have I been asleep!
	narrator	Oh, do forgive me for being so rude. Come, and we’ll have a cup of tea somewhere.”
	narrator	He had evidently forgotten all about the dark stranger, as in his illness he had forgotten all that this episode had reminded him of.
	narrator	I don’t like this lapsing into forgetfulness; it may make or continue some injury to the brain.
	narrator	I must not ask him, for fear I shall do more harm than good; but I must somehow learn the facts of his journey abroad.
	narrator	The time is come, I fear, when I must open that parcel, and know what is written.
	narrator	Oh, Jonathan, you will, I know, forgive me if I do wrong, but it is for your own dear sake.
	narrator	* * * * * _Later._--A sad home-coming in every way--the house empty of the dear soul who was so good to us; Jonathan still pale and dizzy under a slight relapse of his malady; and now a telegram from Van Helsing,
	narrator	whoever he may be:-- “You will be grieved to hear that Mrs. Westenra died five days ago,
	narrator	and that Lucy died the day before yesterday. They were both buried to-day.” Oh, what a wealth of sorrow in a few words!
	narrator	Poor Mrs. Westenra! poor Lucy! Gone, gone, never to return to us! And poor, poor Arthur,
	narrator	to have lost such sweetness out of his life! God help us all to bear our troubles.
	narrator	_Dr. Seward’s Diary. _22 September._--It is all over. Arthur has gone back to Ring, and has taken Quincey Morris with him.
	narrator	What a fine fellow is Quincey! I believe in my heart of hearts that he suffered as much about Lucy’s death as any of us; but he bore himself through it like a moral Viking.
	narrator	If America can go on breeding men like that, she will be a power in the world indeed.
	narrator	Van Helsing is lying down, having a rest preparatory to his journey. He goes over to Amsterdam to-night,
	narrator	but says he returns to-morrow night; that he only wants to make some arrangements which can only be made personally.
	narrator	He is to stop with me then, if he can; he says he has work to do in London which may take him some time.
	narrator	Poor old fellow! I fear that the strain of the past week has broken down even his iron strength.
	narrator	All the time of the burial he was, I could see, putting some terrible restraint on himself.
	narrator	When it was all over, we were standing beside Arthur, who, poor fellow, was speaking of his part in the operation where his blood had been transfused to his Lucy’s veins; I could see Van Helsing’s face grow white and purple by turns.
	narrator	Arthur was saying that he felt since then as if they two had been really married and that she was his wife in the sight of God.
	narrator	None of us said a word of the other operations, and none of us ever shall.
	narrator	Arthur and Quincey went away together to the station, and Van Helsing and I came on here.
	narrator	The moment we were alone in the carriage he gave way to a regular fit of hysterics.
	narrator	He has denied to me since that it was hysterics, and insisted that it was only his sense of humour asserting itself under very terrible conditions.
	narrator	He laughed till he cried, and I had to draw down the blinds lest any one should see us and misjudge; and then he cried,
	narrator	till he laughed again; and laughed and cried together, just as a woman does. I tried to be stern with him,
	narrator	as one is to a woman under the circumstances; but it had no effect. Men and women are so different in manifestations of nervous strength or weakness!
	narrator	Then when his face grew grave and stern again I asked him why his mirth, and why at such a time.
	narrator	His reply was in a way characteristic of him, for it was logical and forceful and mysterious.
	narrator	He said:--
	van helsing	Ah, you don’t comprehend, friend John. Do not think that I am not sad, though I laugh.
	van helsing	See, I have cried even when the laugh did choke me. But no more think that I am all sorry when I cry,
	van helsing	for the laugh he come just the same. Keep it always with you that laughter who knock at your door and say,
	van helsing	‘May I come in?’ is not the true laughter. No! he is a king, and he come when and how he like.
	van helsing	He ask no person; he choose no time of suitability. He say, ‘I am here.’ Behold,
	van helsing	in example I grieve my heart out for that so sweet young girl; I give my blood for her,
	van helsing	though I am old and worn; I give my time, my skill, my sleep; I let my other sufferers want that so she may have all.
	van helsing	And yet I can laugh at her very grave--laugh when the clay from the spade of the sexton drop upon her coffin and say ‘Thud!
	van helsing	thud!’ to my heart, till it send back the blood from my cheek. My heart bleed for that poor boy--that dear boy,
	van helsing	so of the age of mine own boy had I been so blessed that he live,
	van helsing	and with his hair and eyes the same. There, you know now why I love him so.
	van helsing	And yet when he say things that touch my husband-heart to the quick, and make my father-heart yearn to him as to no other man--not even to you,
	van helsing	friend John, for we are more level in experiences than father and son--yet even at such moment King Laugh he come to me and shout and bellow in my ear,
	van helsing	Here I am! here I am!' till the blood come dance back and bring some of the sunshine that he carry with him to my cheek.
	van helsing	Oh, friend John, it is a strange world, a sad world, a world full of miseries,
	van helsing	and woes, and troubles; and yet when King Laugh come he make them all dance to the tune he play.
	van helsing	Bleeding hearts, and dry bones of the churchyard, and tears that burn as they fall--all dance together to the music that he make with that smileless mouth of him.
	van helsing	And believe me, friend John, that he is good to come, and kind. Ah, we men and women are like ropes drawn tight with strain that pull us different ways.
	van helsing	Then tears come; and, like the rain on the ropes, they brace us up, until perhaps the strain become too great,
	van helsing	and we break. But King Laugh he come like the sunshine, and he ease off the strain again; and we bear to go on with our labour,
	van helsing	what it may be.
	narrator	I did not like to wound him by pretending not to see his idea; but, as I did not yet understand the cause of his laughter,
	narrator	I asked him. As he answered me his face grew stern, and he said in quite a different tone: Oh,
	narrator	it was the grim irony of it all--this so lovely lady garlanded with flowers, that looked so fair as life,
	narrator	till one by one we wondered if she were truly dead; she laid in that so fine marble house in that lonely churchyard,
	narrator	where rest so many of her kin, laid there with the mother who loved her, and whom she loved; and that sacred bell going ‘Toll!
	narrator	toll! toll!’ so sad and slow; and those holy men, with the white garments of the angel,
	narrator	pretending to read books, and yet all the time their eyes never on the page; and all of us with the bowed head.
	narrator	And all for what? She is dead; so! Is it not?
	dr. seward	Well, for the life of me, Professor, I said, I can't see anything to laugh at in all that.
	dr. seward	Why, your explanation makes it a harder puzzle than before. But even if the burial service was comic,
	dr. seward	what about poor Art and his trouble? Why, his heart was simply breaking.
	van helsing	Just so. Said he not that the transfusion of his blood to her veins had made her truly his bride?
	dr. seward	Yes, and it was a sweet and comforting idea for him.
	van helsing	Quite so. But there was a difficulty, friend John. If so that, then what about the others?
	van helsing	Ho, ho! Then this so sweet maid is a polyandrist, and me, with my poor wife dead to me,
	van helsing	but alive by Church's law, though no wits, all gone--even I, who am faithful husband to this now-no-wife,
	van helsing	am bigamist.
	dr. seward	I don't see where the joke comes in there either!
	van helsing	Friend John, forgive me if I pain. I showed not my feeling to others when it would wound,
	van helsing	but only to you, my old friend, whom I can trust. If you could have looked into my very heart then when I want to laugh; if you could have done so when the laugh arrived; if you could do so now,
	van helsing	when King Laugh have pack up his crown, and all that is to him--for he go far,
	van helsing	far away from me, and for a long, long time--maybe you would perhaps pity me the most of all.
	dr. seward	I was touched by the tenderness of his tone, and asked why.
	van helsing	Because I know!
	narrator	And now we are all scattered; and for many a long day loneliness will sit over our roofs with brooding wings.
	narrator	Lucy lies in the tomb of her kin, a lordly death-house in a lonely churchyard, away from teeming London; where the air is fresh,
	narrator	and the sun rises over Hampstead Hill, and where wild flowers grow of their own accord.
	narrator	So I can finish this diary; and God only knows if I shall ever begin another.
	narrator	If I do, or if I even open this again, it will be to deal with different people and different themes; for here at the end,
	narrator	where the romance of my life is told, ere I go back to take up the thread of my life-work,
	narrator	I say sadly and without hope, FINIS. The Westminster Gazette, 25 September. A HAMPSTEAD MYSTERY. The neighbourhood of Hampstead is just at present exercised with a series of events which seem to run on lines parallel to those of what was known to the writers of headlines as 'The Kensington
	narrator	Horror,' or 'The Stabbing Woman,' or 'The Woman in Black.' During the past two or three days several cases have occurred of young children straying from home or neglecting to return from their playing on the Heath.
	narrator	In all these cases the children were too young to give any properly intelligible account of themselves,
	narrator	but the consensus of their excuses is that they had been with a 'bloofer lady.' It has always been late in the evening when they have been missed,
	narrator	and on two occasions the children have not been found until early in the following morning.
	narrator	It is generally supposed in the neighbourhood that, as the first child missed gave as his reason for being away that a 'bloofer lady'
	narrator	had asked him to come for a walk, the others had picked up the phrase and used it as occasion served.
	narrator	This is the more natural as the favourite game of the little ones at present is luring each other away by wiles.
	narrator	A correspondent writes us that to see some of the tiny tots pretending to be the 'bloofer lady'
	narrator	is supremely funny. Some of our caricaturists might, he says, take a lesson in the irony of grotesque by comparing the reality and the picture.
	narrator	It is only in accordance with general principles of human nature that the 'bloofer lady' should be the popular rôle at these al fresco performances.
	narrator	Our correspondent naïvely says that even Ellen Terry could not be so winningly attractive as some of these grubby-faced little children pretend--and even imagine themselves--to be.
	narrator	There is, however, possibly a serious side to the question, for some of the children, indeed all who have been missed at night,
	narrator	have been slightly torn or wounded in the throat. The wounds seem such as might be made by a rat or a small dog,
	narrator	and although of not much importance individually, would tend to show that whatever animal inflicts them has a system or method of its own.
	narrator	The police of the division have been instructed to keep a sharp look-out for straying children,
	narrator	especially when very young, in and around Hampstead Heath, and for any stray dog which may be about.
	narrator	The Westminster Gazette, 25 September. Extra Special. THE HAMPSTEAD HORROR. ANOTHER CHILD INJURED. THE 'BLOOFER LADY.'
	narrator	We have just received intelligence that another child, missed last night, was only discovered late in the morning under a furze bush at the Shooter's Hill side of Hampstead Heath,
	narrator	which is, perhaps, less frequented than the other parts. It has the same tiny wound in the throat as has been noticed in other cases.
	narrator	It was terribly weak, and looked quite emaciated. It too, when partially restored, had the common story to tell of being lured away by the 'bloofer lady.'
