	narrator	CHAPTER IX Letter, Mina Harker to Lucy Westenra. "Buda-Pesth, 24 August."
	mina harker	My dearest Lucy, I know you will be anxious to hear all that has happened since we parted at the railway station at Whitby.
	mina harker	Well, my dear, I got to Hull all right, and caught the boat to Hamburg, and then the train on here.
	mina harker	I feel that I can hardly recall anything of the journey, except that I knew I was coming to Jonathan,
	mina harker	and, that as I should have to do some nursing, I had better get all the sleep I could....
	mina harker	I found my dear one, oh, so thin and pale and weak-looking. All the resolution has gone out of his dear eyes,
	mina harker	and that quiet dignity which I told you was in his face has vanished. He is only a wreck of himself,
	mina harker	and he does not remember anything that has happened to him for a long time past.
	mina harker	At least, he wants me to believe so, and I shall never ask. He has had some terrible shock,
	mina harker	and I fear it might tax his poor brain if he were to try to recall it.
	mina harker	Sister Agatha, who is a good creature and a born nurse, tells me that he raved of dreadful things whilst he was off his head.
	mina harker	I wanted her to tell me what they were; but she would only cross herself, and say she would never tell; that the ravings of the sick were the secrets of God,
	mina harker	and that if a nurse through her vocation should hear them, she should respect her trust.
	mina harker	She is a sweet, good soul, and the next day, when she saw I was troubled,
	mina harker	she opened up the subject again, and after saying that she could never mention what my poor dear raved about,
	mina harker	added:
	sister agatha	I can tell you this much, my dear: that it was not about anything which he has done wrong himself; and you,
	sister agatha	as his wife to be, have no cause to be concerned. He has not forgotten you or what he owes to you.
	sister agatha	His fear was of great and terrible things, which no mortal can treat of.
	mina harker	I do believe the dear soul thought I might be jealous lest my poor dear should have fallen in love with any other girl.
	mina harker	The idea of_my_ being jealous about Jonathan! And yet, my dear, let me whisper, I felt a thrill of joy through me when I_knew_ that no other woman was a cause of trouble.
	mina harker	I am now sitting by his bedside, where I can see his face while he sleeps.
	mina harker	He is waking!... When he woke he asked me for his coat, as he wanted to get something from the pocket; I asked Sister Agatha,
	mina harker	and she brought all his things. I saw that amongst them was his note-book, and was going to ask him to let me look at it--for I knew then that I might find some clue to his trouble--but I suppose he must have seen my wish in my eyes,
	mina harker	for he sent me over to the window, saying he wanted to be quite alone for a moment.
	mina harker	Then he called me back, and when I came he had his hand over the note-book,
	mina harker	and he said to me very solemnly:
	jonathan harker	Wilhelmina"--I knew then that he was in deadly earnest, for he has never called me by that name since he asked me to marry him--"you know,
	jonathan harker	dear, my ideas of the trust between husband and wife: there should be no secret, no concealment.
	jonathan harker	I have had a great shock, and when I try to think of what it is I feel my head spin round,
	jonathan harker	and I do not know if it was all real or the dreaming of a madman.
	jonathan harker	You know I have had brain fever, and that is to be mad. The secret is here,
	jonathan harker	and I do not want to know it. I want to take up my life here,
	jonathan harker	with our marriage. Are you willing, Wilhelmina, to share my ignorance? Here is the book. Take it and keep it,
	jonathan harker	read it if you will, but never let me know; unless, indeed, some solemn duty should come upon me to go back to the bitter hours,
	jonathan harker	asleep or awake, sane or mad, recorded here.
	mina harker	He fell back exhausted, and I put the book under his pillow, and kissed him. I have asked Sister Agatha to beg the Superior to let our wedding be this afternoon,
	mina harker	and am waiting her reply....
	narrator	"She has come and told me that the chaplain of the English mission church has been sent for.
	narrator	We are to be married in an hour, or as soon after as Jonathan awakes...." "Lucy,
	narrator	the time has come and gone. I feel very solemn, but very, very happy. Jonathan woke a little after the hour,
	narrator	and all was ready, and he sat up in bed, propped up with pillows. He answered his 'I will'
	narrator	firmly and strongly. I could hardly speak; my heart was so full that even those words seemed to choke me.
	narrator	The dear sisters were so kind. Please God, I shall never, never forget them, nor the grave and sweet responsibilities I have taken upon me.
	narrator	I must tell you of my wedding present."
	mina harker	When the chaplain and the sisters had left me alone with my husband--oh, Lucy, it is the first time I have written the words 'my husband'--left me alone with my husband,
	mina harker	I took the book from under his pillow, and wrapped it up in white paper, and tied it with a little bit of pale blue ribbon which was round my neck,
	mina harker	and sealed it over the knot with sealing-wax, and for my seal I used my wedding ring.
	mina harker	Then I kissed it and showed it to my husband, and told him that I would keep it so,
	mina harker	and then it would be an outward and visible sign for us all our lives that we trusted each other; that I would never open it unless it were for his own dear sake or for the sake of some stern duty.
	mina harker	Then he took my hand in his, and oh, Lucy, it was the first time he took_his wife's_ hand,
	mina harker	and said that it was the dearest thing in all the wide world, and that he would go through all the past again to win it,
	mina harker	if need be. The poor dear meant to have said a part of the past, but he cannot think of time yet,
	mina harker	and I shall not wonder if at first he mixes up not only the month, but the year.
	narrator	Well, my dear, what could I say? I could only tell him that I was the happiest woman in all the wide world,
	narrator	and that I had nothing to give him except myself, my life, and my trust, and that with these went my love and duty for all the days of my life.
	narrator	And, my dear, when he kissed me, and drew me to him with his poor weak hands,
	narrator	it was like a very solemn pledge between us.... Lucy dear, do you know why I tell you all this?
	narrator	It is not only because it is all sweet to me, but because you have been,
	narrator	and are, very dear to me. It was my privilege to be your friend and guide when you came from the schoolroom to prepare for the world of life.
	narrator	I want you to see now, and with the eyes of a very happy wife, whither duty has led me; so that in your own married life you too may be all happy as I am.
	narrator	My dear, please Almighty God, your life may be all it promises: a long day of sunshine,
	narrator	with no harsh wind, no forgetting duty, no distrust. I must not wish you no pain,
	narrator	for that can never be; but I do hope you will be always as happy as I am now.
	narrator	Good-bye, my dear. I shall post this at once, and, perhaps, write you very soon again.
	narrator	I must stop, for Jonathan is waking--I must attend to my husband! Your ever-loving MINA HARKER.
	narrator	Letter, Lucy Westenra to Mina Harker. Whitby, 30 August. My dearest Mina,-- Oceans of love and millions of kisses,
	narrator	and may you soon be in your own home with your husband. I wish you could be coming home soon enough to stay with us here.
	narrator	The strong air would soon restore Jonathan; it has quite restored me. I have an appetite like a cormorant,
	narrator	am full of life, and sleep well. You will be glad to know that I have quite given up walking in my sleep.
	narrator	I think I have not stirred out of my bed for a week, that is when I once got into it at night.
	narrator	Arthur says I am getting fat. By the way, I forgot to tell you that Arthur is here.
	narrator	We have such walks and drives, and rides, and rowing, and tennis, and fishing together; and I love him more than ever.
	narrator	He tells me that he loves me more, but I doubt that, for at first he told me that he couldn't love me more than he did then.
	narrator	But this is nonsense. There he is, calling to me. So no more just at present from your loving LUCY.
	narrator	P. S.--Mother sends her love. She seems better, poor dear. P. P. S.--We are to be married on 28 September.
	narrator	Dr. Seward's Diary. 20 August.--The case of Renfield grows even more interesting. He has now so far quieted that there are spells of cessation from his passion.
	narrator	For the first week after his attack he was perpetually violent. Then one night, just as the moon rose,
	narrator	he grew quiet, and kept murmuring to himself: "Now I can wait; now I can wait."
	narrator	The attendant came to tell me, so I ran down at once to have a look at him.
	narrator	He was still in the strait-waistcoat and in the padded room, but the suffused look had gone from his face,
	narrator	and his eyes had something of their old pleading--I might almost say, "cringing"--softness. I was satisfied with his present condition,
	narrator	and directed him to be relieved. The attendants hesitated, but finally carried out my wishes without protest.
	narrator	It was a strange thing that the patient had humour enough to see their distrust, for,
	narrator	coming close to me, he said in a whisper, all the while looking furtively at them:
	renfield	They think I could hurt you! Fancy me hurting you! The fools!
	narrator	It was soothing, somehow, to the feelings to find myself dissociated even in the mind of this poor madman from the others; but all the same I do not follow his thought.
	narrator	Am I to take it that I have anything in common with him, so that we are,
	narrator	as it were, to stand together; or has he to gain from me some good so stupendous that my well-being is needful to him?
	narrator	I must find out later on. To-night he will not speak. Even the offer of a kitten or even a full-grown cat will not tempt him.
	narrator	He will only say: "I don't take any stock in cats. I have more to think of now,
	narrator	and I can wait; I can wait." After a while I left him. The attendant tells me that he was quiet until just before dawn,
	narrator	and that then he began to get uneasy, and at length violent, until at last he fell into a paroxysm which exhausted him so that he swooned into a sort of coma.
	narrator	Three nights has the same thing happened--violent all day then quiet from moonrise to sunrise. I wish I could get some clue to the cause.
	narrator	It would almost seem as if there was some influence which came and went. Happy thought!
	narrator	We shall to-night play sane wits against mad ones. He escaped before without our help; to-night he shall escape with it.
	narrator	We shall give him a chance, and have the men ready to follow in case they are required....
	narrator	23 August.--"The unexpected always happens." How well Disraeli knew life. Our bird when he found the cage open would not fly,
	narrator	so all our subtle arrangements were for nought. At any rate, we have proved one thing; that the spells of quietness last a reasonable time.
	narrator	We shall in future be able to ease his bonds for a few hours each day.
	narrator	I have given orders to the night attendant merely to shut him in the padded room,
	narrator	when once he is quiet, until an hour before sunrise. The poor soul's body will enjoy the relief even if his mind cannot appreciate it.
	narrator	Hark! The unexpected again! I am called; the patient has once more escaped. Later.--Another night adventure.
	narrator	Renfield artfully waited until the attendant was entering the room to inspect. Then he dashed out past him and flew down the passage.
	narrator	I sent word for the attendants to follow. Again he went into the grounds of the deserted house,
	narrator	and we found him in the same place, pressed against the old chapel door. When he saw me he became furious,
	narrator	and had not the attendants seized him in time, he would have tried to kill me.
	narrator	As we were holding him a strange thing happened. He suddenly redoubled his efforts, and then as suddenly grew calm.
	narrator	I looked round instinctively, but could see nothing. Then I caught the patient's eye and followed it,
	narrator	but could trace nothing as it looked into the moonlit sky except a big bat, which was flapping its silent and ghostly way to the west.
	narrator	Bats usually wheel and flit about, but this one seemed to go straight on, as if it knew where it was bound for or had some intention of its own.
	narrator	The patient grew calmer every instant, and presently said:
	renfield	You needn't tie me; I shall go quietly!
	narrator	Without trouble we came back to the house. I feel there is something ominous in his calm,
	narrator	and shall not forget this night.... Lucy Westenra's Diary Hillingham, 24 August.--I must imitate Mina, and keep writing things down.
	narrator	Then we can have long talks when we do meet. I wonder when it will be.
	narrator	I wish she were with me again, for I feel so unhappy. Last night I seemed to be dreaming again just as I was at Whitby.
	narrator	Perhaps it is the change of air, or getting home again. It is all dark and horrid to me,
	narrator	for I can remember nothing; but I am full of vague fear, and I feel so weak and worn out.
	narrator	When Arthur came to lunch he looked quite grieved when he saw me, and I hadn't the spirit to try to be cheerful.
	narrator	I wonder if I could sleep in mother's room to-night. I shall make an excuse and try.
	narrator	25 August.--Another bad night. Mother did not seem to take to my proposal. She seems not too well herself,
	narrator	and doubtless she fears to worry me. I tried to keep awake, and succeeded for a while; but when the clock struck twelve it waked me from a doze,
	narrator	so I must have been falling asleep. There was a sort of scratching or flapping at the window,
	narrator	but I did not mind it, and as I remember no more, I suppose I must then have fallen asleep.
	narrator	More bad dreams. I wish I could remember them. This morning I am horribly weak. My face is ghastly pale,
	narrator	and my throat pains me. It must be something wrong with my lungs, for I don't seem ever to get air enough.
	narrator	I shall try to cheer up when Arthur comes, or else I know he will be miserable to see me so.
	narrator	Letter, Arthur Holmwood to Dr. Seward. Albemarle Hotel, 31 August. My dear Jack,
	arthur holmwood	I want you to do me a favour. Lucy is ill; that is, she has no special disease,
	arthur holmwood	but she looks awful, and is getting worse every day. I have asked her if there is any cause; I do not dare to ask her mother,
	arthur holmwood	for to disturb the poor lady's mind about her daughter in her present state of health would be fatal.
	arthur holmwood	Mrs. Westenra has confided to me that her doom is spoken--disease of the heart--though poor Lucy does not know it yet.
	arthur holmwood	I am sure that there is something preying on my dear girl's mind. I am almost distracted when I think of her; to look at her gives me a pang.
	arthur holmwood	I told her I should ask you to see her, and though she demurred at first--I know why,
	arthur holmwood	old fellow--she finally consented. It will be a painful task for you, I know, old friend,
	arthur holmwood	but it is for _her_ sake, and I must not hesitate to ask, or you to act.
	arthur holmwood	You are to come to lunch at Hillingham to-morrow, two o'clock, so as not to arouse any suspicion in Mrs. Westenra,
	arthur holmwood	and after lunch Lucy will take an opportunity of being alone with you. I shall come in for tea,
	arthur holmwood	and we can go away together; I am filled with anxiety, and want to consult with you alone as soon as I can after you have seen her.
	arthur holmwood	Do not fail!
	narrator	ARTHUR. Telegram, Arthur Holmwood to Seward. 1 September. Am summoned to see my father, who is worse.
	narrator	Am writing. Write me fully by to-night's post to Ring. Wire me if necessary. Letter from Dr. Seward to Arthur Holmwood.
	narrator	2 September. My dear old fellow,
	dr. seward	With regard to Miss Westenra's health I hasten to let you know at once that in my opinion there is not any functional disturbance or any malady that I know of.
	dr. seward	At the same time, I am not by any means satisfied with her appearance; she is woefully different from what she was when I saw her last.
	dr. seward	Of course you must bear in mind that I did not have full opportunity of examination such as I should wish; our very friendship makes a little difficulty which not even medical science or custom can bridge over.
	dr. seward	I had better tell you exactly what happened, leaving you to draw, in a measure, your own conclusions.
	dr. seward	I shall then say what I have done and propose doing. I found Miss Westenra in seemingly gay spirits.
	dr. seward	Her mother was present, and in a few seconds I made up my mind that she was trying all she knew to mislead her mother and prevent her from being anxious.
	dr. seward	I have no doubt she guesses, if she does not know, what need of caution there is.
	dr. seward	We lunched alone, and as we all exerted ourselves to be cheerful, we got, as some kind of reward for our labours,
	dr. seward	some real cheerfulness amongst us. Then Mrs. Westenra went to lie down, and Lucy was left with me.
	dr. seward	We went into her boudoir, and till we got there her gaiety remained, for the servants were coming and going.
	dr. seward	As soon as the door was closed, however, the mask fell from her face, and she sank down into a chair with a great sigh,
	dr. seward	and hid her eyes with her hand. When I saw that her high spirits had failed,
	dr. seward	I at once took advantage of her reaction to make a diagnosis. She said to me very sweetly:
	narrator	I reminded her that a doctor's confidence was sacred, but that you were grievously anxious about her.
	lucy westenra	I do not care for myself, but all for him!
	narrator	So I am quite free.
	dr. seward	I could easily see that she is somewhat bloodless, but I could not see the usual anæmic signs,
	dr. seward	and by a chance I was actually able to test the quality of her blood, for in opening a window which was stiff a cord gave way,
	dr. seward	and she cut her hand slightly with broken glass. It was a slight matter in itself,
	dr. seward	but it gave me an evident chance, and I secured a few drops of the blood and have analysed them.
	dr. seward	The qualitative analysis gives a quite normal condition, and shows, I should infer, in itself a vigorous state of health.
	dr. seward	In other physical matters I was quite satisfied that there is no need for anxiety; but as there must be a cause somewhere,
	dr. seward	I have come to the conclusion that it must be something mental. She complains of difficulty in breathing satisfactorily at times,
	dr. seward	and of heavy, lethargic sleep, with dreams that frighten her, but regarding which she can remember nothing.
	dr. seward	She says that as a child she used to walk in her sleep, and that when in Whitby the habit came back,
	dr. seward	and that once she walked out in the night and went to East Cliff, where Miss Murray found her; but she assures me that of late the habit has not returned.
	dr. seward	I am in doubt, and so have done the best thing I know of; I have written to my old friend and master,
	dr. seward	Professor Van Helsing, of Amsterdam, who knows as much about obscure diseases as any one in the world.
	dr. seward	I have asked him to come over, and as you told me that all things were to be at your charge,
	dr. seward	I have mentioned to him who you are and your relations to Miss Westenra. This, my dear fellow,
	dr. seward	is in obedience to your wishes, for I am only too proud and happy to do anything I can for her.
	dr. seward	Van Helsing would, I know, do anything for me for a personal reason, so, no matter on what ground he comes,
	dr. seward	we must accept his wishes. He is a seemingly arbitrary man, but this is because he knows what he is talking about better than any one else.
	dr. seward	He is a philosopher and a metaphysician, and one of the most advanced scientists of his day; and he has,
	dr. seward	I believe, an absolutely open mind. This, with an iron nerve, a temper of the ice-brook,
	dr. seward	an indomitable resolution, self-command, and toleration exalted from virtues to blessings, and the kindliest and truest heart that beats--these form his equipment for the noble work that he is doing for mankind--work both in theory and practice,
	dr. seward	for his views are as wide as his all-embracing sympathy. I tell you these facts that you may know why I have such confidence in him.
	dr. seward	I have asked him to come at once. I shall see Miss Westenra to-morrow again. She is to meet me at the Stores,
	dr. seward	so that I may not alarm her mother by too early a repetition of my call.
	dr. seward	Yours always, JOHN SEWARD.
	narrator	Letter, Abraham Van Helsing, M. D., D. Ph., D. Lit., etc., etc., to Dr. Seward.
	van helsing	2 September. My good Friend,--When I have received your letter I am already coming to you.
	van helsing	By good fortune I can leave just at once, without wrong to any of those who have trusted me.
	van helsing	Were fortune other, then it were bad for those who have trusted, for I come to my friend when he call me to aid those he holds dear.
	van helsing	Tell your friend that when that time you suck from my wound so swiftly the poison of the gangrene from that knife that our other friend,
	van helsing	too nervous, let slip, you did more for him when he wants my aids and you call for them than all his great fortune could do.
	van helsing	But it is pleasure added to do for him, your friend; it is to you that I come.
	van helsing	Have then rooms for me at the Great Eastern Hotel, so that I may be near to hand,
	van helsing	and please it so arrange that we may see the young lady not too late on to-morrow,
	van helsing	for it is likely that I may have to return here that night. But if need be I shall come again in three days,
	van helsing	and stay longer if it must. Till then good-bye, my friend John.
	narrator	Letter, Dr. Seward to Hon. Arthur Holmwood.
	dr. seward	3 September. My dear Art,--Van Helsing has come and gone. He came on with me to Hillingham,
	dr. seward	and found that, by Lucy's discretion, her mother was lunching out, so that we were alone with her.
	dr. seward	Van Helsing made a very careful examination of the patient. He is to report to me,
	dr. seward	and I shall advise you, for of course I was not present all the time. He is,
	dr. seward	I fear, much concerned, but says he must think. When I told him of our friendship and how you trust to me in the matter,
	dr. seward	he said: 'You must tell him all you think. Tell him what I think, if you can guess it,
	dr. seward	if you will. Nay, I am not jesting. This is no jest, but life and death,
	dr. seward	perhaps more.' I asked what he meant by that, for he was very serious. This was when we had come back to town,
	dr. seward	and he was having a cup of tea before starting on his return to Amsterdam. He would not give me any further clue.
	dr. seward	You must not be angry with me, Art, because his very reticence means that all his brains are working for her good.
	dr. seward	He will speak plainly enough when the time comes, be sure. So I told him I would simply write an account of our visit,
	dr. seward	just as if I were doing a descriptive special article for _The Daily Telegraph_. He seemed not to notice,
	dr. seward	but remarked that the smuts in London were not quite so bad as they used to be when he was a student here.
	dr. seward	I am to get his report to-morrow if he can possibly make it. In any case I am to have a letter.
	narrator	Well, as to the visit. Lucy was more cheerful than on the day I first saw her,
	narrator	and certainly looked better. She had lost something of the ghastly look that so upset you,
	narrator	and her breathing was normal. She was very sweet to the professor (as she always is),
	narrator	and tried to make him feel at ease; though I could see that the poor girl was making a hard struggle for it.
	narrator	I believe Van Helsing saw it, too, for I saw the quick look under his bushy brows that I knew of old.
	narrator	Then he began to chat of all things except ourselves and diseases and with such an infinite geniality that I could see poor Lucy's pretense of animation merge into reality.
	narrator	Then, without any seeming change, he brought the conversation gently round to his visit, and suavely said:
	van helsing	My dear young miss, I have the so great pleasure because you are so much beloved.
	van helsing	That is much, my dear, ever were there that which I do not see. They told me you were down in the spirit,
	van helsing	and that you were of a ghastly pale. To them I say: "Pouf!
	narrator	And he snapped his fingers at me and went on: 'But you and I shall show them how wrong they are.
	narrator	How can he'
	van helsing	know anything of a young ladies? He has his madmans to play with, and to bring them back to happiness,
	van helsing	and to those that love them. It is much to do, and, oh, but there are rewards,
	van helsing	in that we can bestow such happiness. But the young ladies! He has no wife nor daughter,
	van helsing	and the young do not tell themselves to the young, but to the old, like me,
	van helsing	who have known so many sorrows and the causes of them. So, my dear, we will send him away to smoke the cigarette in the garden,
	van helsing	whiles you and I have little talk all to ourselves.
	narrator	I took the hint, and strolled about, and presently the professor came to the window and called me in.
	narrator	He looked grave, but said: 'I have made careful examination, but there is no functional cause.
	narrator	With you I agree that there has been much blood lost; it has been, but is not.
	narrator	But the conditions of her are in no way anæmic. I have asked her to send me her maid,
	narrator	that I may ask just one or two question, that so I may not chance to miss nothing.
	narrator	I know well what she will say. And yet there is cause; there is always cause for everything.
	narrator	I must go back home and think. You must send to me the telegram every day; and if there be cause I shall come again.
	narrator	The disease--for not to be all well is a disease--interest me, and the sweet young dear,
	narrator	she interest me too. She charm me, and for her, if not for you or disease,
	narrator	I come.' As I tell you, he would not say a word more, even when we were alone.
	narrator	And so now, Art, you know all I know. I shall keep stern watch. I trust your poor father is rallying.
	narrator	It must be a terrible thing to you, my dear old fellow, to be placed in such a position between two people who are both so dear to you.
	narrator	I know your idea of duty to your father, and you are right to stick to it; but,
	narrator	if need be, I shall send you word to come at once to Lucy; so do not be over-anxious unless you hear from me.
	narrator	Dr. Seward's Diary. 4 September.--Zoöphagous patient still keeps up our interest in him. He had only one outburst and that was yesterday at an unusual time.
	narrator	Just before the stroke of noon he began to grow restless. The attendant knew the symptoms,
	narrator	and at once summoned aid. Fortunately the men came at a run, and were just in time,
	narrator	for at the stroke of noon he became so violent that it took all their strength to hold him.
	narrator	In about five minutes, however, he began to get more and more quiet, and finally sank into a sort of melancholy,
	narrator	in which state he has remained up to now. The attendant tells me that his screams whilst in the paroxysm were really appalling; I found my hands full when I got in,
	narrator	attending to some of the other patients who were frightened by him. Indeed, I can quite understand the effect,
	narrator	for the sounds disturbed even me, though I was some distance away. It is now after the dinner-hour of the asylum,
	narrator	and as yet my patient sits in a corner brooding, with a dull, sullen, woe-begone look in his face,
	narrator	which seems rather to indicate than to show something directly. I cannot quite understand it. Later.--Another change in my patient.
	narrator	At five o'clock I looked in on him, and found him seemingly as happy and contented as he used to be.
	narrator	He was catching flies and eating them, and was keeping note of his capture by making nail-marks on the edge of the door between the ridges of padding.
	narrator	When he saw me, he came over and apologised for his bad conduct, and asked me in a very humble,
	narrator	cringing way to be led back to his own room and to have his note-book again.
	narrator	I thought it well to humour him: so he is back in his room with the window open.
	narrator	He has the sugar of his tea spread out on the window-sill, and is reaping quite a harvest of flies.
	narrator	He is not now eating them, but putting them into a box, as of old, and is already examining the corners of his room to find a spider.
	narrator	I tried to get him to talk about the past few days, for any clue to his thoughts would be of immense help to me; but he would not rise.
	narrator	For a moment or two he looked very sad, and said in a sort of far-away voice,
	narrator	as though saying it rather to himself than to me:
	renfield	All over! all over! He has deserted me. No hope for me now unless I do it for myself!
	narrator	Then suddenly turning to me in a resolute way, he said:
	renfield	Doctor, won't you be very good to me and let me have a little more sugar?
	renfield	I think it would be good for me.
	narrator	And the flies?
	renfield	Yes! The flies like it, too, and I like the flies; therefore I like it.
	narrator	And there are people who know so little as to think that madmen do not argue.
	narrator	I procured him a double supply, and left him as happy a man as, I suppose,
	narrator	any in the world. I wish I could fathom his mind. Midnight.--Another change in him. I had been to see Miss Westenra,
	narrator	whom I found much better, and had just returned, and was standing at our own gate looking at the sunset,
	narrator	when once more I heard him yelling. As his room is on this side of the house,
	narrator	I could hear it better than in the morning. It was a shock to me to turn from the wonderful smoky beauty of a sunset over London,
	narrator	with its lurid lights and inky shadows and all the marvellous tints that come on foul clouds even as on foul water,
	narrator	and to realise all the grim sternness of my own cold stone building, with its wealth of breathing misery,
	narrator	and my own desolate heart to endure it all. I reached him just as the sun was going down,
	narrator	and from his window saw the red disc sink. As it sank he became less and less frenzied; and just as it dipped he slid from the hands that held him,
	narrator	an inert mass, on the floor. It is wonderful, however, what intellectual recuperative power lunatics have,
	narrator	for within a few minutes he stood up quite calmly and looked around him. I signalled to the attendants not to hold him,
	narrator	for I was anxious to see what he would do. He went straight over to the window and brushed out the crumbs of sugar; then he took his fly-box,
	narrator	and emptied it outside, and threw away the box; then he shut the window, and crossing over,
	narrator	sat down on his bed. All this surprised me, so I asked him: Are you not going to keep flies any more?
	renfield	No,
	narrator	said he; "I am sick of all that rubbish!" He certainly is a wonderfully interesting study.
	narrator	I wish I could get some glimpse of his mind or of the cause of his sudden passion.
	narrator	Stop; there may be a clue after all, if we can find why to-day his paroxysms came on at high noon and at sunset.
	narrator	Can it be that there is a malign influence of the sun at periods which affects certain natures--as at times the moon does others?
	narrator	We shall see. Telegram, Seward, London, to Van Helsing, Amsterdam. "4 September.--Patient still better to-day." Telegram,
	narrator	Seward, London, to Van Helsing, Amsterdam. "5 September.--Patient greatly improved. Good appetite; sleeps naturally; good spirits; colour coming back."
	narrator	Telegram, Seward, London, to Van Helsing, Amsterdam. "6 September.--Terrible change for the worse. Come at once; do not lose an hour.
	narrator	I hold over telegram to Holmwood till have seen you."
