	narrator	CHAPTER XXII JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL 3 October.--As I must do something or go mad, I write this diary.
	narrator	It is now six o'clock, and we are to meet in the study in half an hour and take something to eat; for Dr. Van Helsing and Dr. Seward are agreed that if we do not eat we cannot work our best.
	narrator	Our best will be, God knows, required to-day. I must keep writing at every chance, for I dare not stop to think.
	narrator	All, big and little, must go down; perhaps at the end the little things may teach us most.
	narrator	The teaching, big or little, could not have landed Mina or me anywhere worse than we are to-day.
	narrator	However, we must trust and hope. Poor Mina told me just now, with the tears running down her dear cheeks,
	narrator	that it is in trouble and trial that our faith is tested--that we must keep on trusting; and that God will aid us up to the end.
	narrator	The end! oh my God! what end?... To work! To work! When Dr. Van Helsing and Dr. Seward had come back from seeing poor Renfield,
	narrator	we went gravely into what was to be done. First, Dr. Seward told us that when he and Dr. Van Helsing had gone down to the room below they had found Renfield lying on the floor,
	narrator	all in a heap. His face was all bruised and crushed in, and the bones of the neck were broken.
	narrator	Dr. Seward asked the attendant who was on duty in the passage if he had heard anything.
	narrator	He said that he had been sitting down--he confessed to half dozing--when he heard loud voices in the room,
	narrator	and then Renfield had called out loudly several times, "God! God! God!" after that there was a sound of falling,
	narrator	and when he entered the room he found him lying on the floor, face down, just as the doctors had seen him.
	narrator	Van Helsing asked if he had heard "voices" or "a voice," and he said he could not say; that at first it had seemed to him as if there were two,
	narrator	but as there was no one in the room it could have been only one. He could swear to it,
	narrator	if required, that the word "God" was spoken by the patient. Dr. Seward said to us,
	narrator	when we were alone, that he did not wish to go into the matter; the question of an inquest had to be considered,
	narrator	and it would never do to put forward the truth, as no one would believe it.
	narrator	As it was, he thought that on the attendant's evidence he could give a certificate of death by misadventure in falling from bed.
	narrator	In case the coroner should demand it, there would be a formal inquest, necessarily to the same result.
	narrator	When the question began to be discussed as to what should be our next step, the very first thing we decided was that Mina should be in full confidence; that nothing of any sort--no matter how painful--should be kept from her.
	narrator	She herself agreed as to its wisdom, and it was pitiful to see her so brave and yet so sorrowful,
	narrator	and in such a depth of despair.
	mina harker	There must be no concealment.
	narrator	she said, "Alas! we have had too much already. And besides there is nothing in all the world that can give me more pain than I have already endured--than I suffer now!
	narrator	Whatever may happen, it must be of new hope or of new courage to me!"
	dr. van helsing	But dear Madam Mina, are you not afraid; not for yourself, but for others from yourself,
	dr. van helsing	after what has happened?
	mina harker	Ah no! for my mind is made up!
	dr. van helsing	To what?
	narrator	he asked gently, whilst we were all very still; for each in our own way we had a sort of vague idea of what she meant.
	mina harker	Because if I find in myself--and I shall watch keenly for it--a sign of harm to any that I love,
	mina harker	I shall die!
	dr. van helsing	You would not kill yourself?
	mina harker	I would; if there were no friend who loved me, who would save me such a pain,
	mina harker	and so desperate an effort!
	narrator	She looked at him meaningly as she spoke.
	dr. van helsing	My child, there is such an one if it were for your good. For myself I could hold it in my account with God to find such an euthanasia for you,
	dr. van helsing	even at this moment if it were best. Nay, were it safe! But my child----
	narrator	For a moment he seemed choked, and a great sob rose in his throat; he gulped it down and went on:
	dr. van helsing	There are here some who would stand between you and death. You must not die. You must not die by any hand; but least of all by your own.
	dr. van helsing	Until the other, who has fouled your sweet life, is true dead you must not die; for if he is still with the quick Un-Dead,
	dr. van helsing	your death would make you even as he is. No, you must live! You must struggle and strive to live,
	dr. van helsing	though death would seem a boon unspeakable. You must fight Death himself, though he come to you in pain or in joy; by the day,
	dr. van helsing	or the night; in safety or in peril! On your living soul I charge you that you do not die--nay,
	dr. van helsing	nor think of death--till this great evil be past.
	narrator	The poor dear grew white as death, and shock and shivered, as I have seen a quicksand shake and shiver at the incoming of the tide.
	narrator	We were all silent; we could do nothing. At length she grew more calm and turning to him said,
	narrator	sweetly, but oh! so sorrowfully, as she held out her hand:
	jonathan harker	I promise you, my dear friend, that if God will let me live, I shall strive to do so; till,
	jonathan harker	if it may be in His good time, this horror may have passed away from me.
	narrator	She was so good and brave that we all felt that our hearts were strengthened to work and endure for her,
	narrator	and we began to discuss what we were to do.
	jonathan harker	I told her that she was to have all the papers in the safe, and all the papers or diaries and phonographs we might hereafter use; and was to keep the record as she had done before.
	narrator	She was pleased with the prospect of anything to do--if "pleased" could be used in connection with so grim an interest.
	narrator	As usual Van Helsing had thought ahead of everyone else, and was prepared with an exact ordering of our work.
	dr. van helsing	It is perhaps well, that at our meeting after our visit to Carfax we decided not to do anything with the earth-boxes that lay there.
	dr. van helsing	Had we done so, the Count must have guessed our purpose, and would doubtless have taken measures in advance to frustrate such an effort with regard to the others; but now he does not know our intentions.
	dr. van helsing	Nay, more, in all probability, he does not know that such a power exists to us as can sterilise his lairs,
	dr. van helsing	so that he cannot use them as of old. We are now so much further advanced in our knowledge as to their disposition that,
	dr. van helsing	when we have examined the house in Piccadilly, we may track the very last of them.
	dr. van helsing	To-day, then, is ours; and in it rests our hope. The sun that rose on our sorrow this morning guards us in its course.
	dr. van helsing	Until it sets to-night, that monster must retain whatever form he now has. He is confined within the limitations of his earthly envelope.
	dr. van helsing	He cannot melt into thin air nor disappear through cracks or chinks or crannies. If he go through a doorway,
	dr. van helsing	he must open the door like a mortal. And so we have this day to hunt out all his lairs and sterilise them.
	dr. van helsing	So we shall, if we have not yet catch him and destroy him, drive him to bay in some place where the catching and the destroying shall be,
	dr. van helsing	in time, sure.
	narrator	Here I started up for I could not contain myself at the thought that the minutes and seconds so precious laden with Mina's life and happiness were flying from us,
	narrator	since whilst we talked action was impossible.
	dr. van helsing	Nay, friend Jonathan, in this, the quickest way home is the longest way, so your proverb say.
	dr. van helsing	We shall all act and act with desperate quick, when the time has come. But think,
	dr. van helsing	in all probable the key of the situation is in that house in Piccadilly. The Count may have many houses which he has bought.
	dr. van helsing	Of them he will have deeds of purchase, keys and other things. He will have paper that he write on; he will have his book of cheques.
	dr. van helsing	There are many belongings that he must have somewhere; why not in this place so central,
	dr. van helsing	so quiet, where he come and go by the front or the back at all hour,
	dr. van helsing	when in the very vast of the traffic there is none to notice. We shall go there and search that house; and when we learn what it holds,
	dr. van helsing	then we do what our friend Arthur call, in his phrases of hunt 'stop the earths'
	dr. van helsing	and so we run down our old fox--so? is it not?
	jonathan harker	Then let us come at once, we are wasting the precious, precious time!
	dr. van helsing	And how are we to get into that house in Piccadilly?
	jonathan harker	Any way! We shall break in if need be.
	dr. van helsing	And your police; where will they be, and what will they say?
	jonathan harker	Don't wait more than need be; you know, I am sure, what torture I am in.
	dr. van helsing	Ah, my child, that I do; and indeed there is no wish of me to add to your anguish.
	dr. van helsing	But just think, what can we do, until all the world be at movement. Then will come our time.
	dr. van helsing	I have thought and thought, and it seems to me that the simplest way is the best of all.
	dr. van helsing	Now we wish to get into the house, but we have no key; is it not so?
	jonathan harker	I nodded.
	dr. van helsing	Now suppose that you were, in truth, the owner of that house, and could not still get in; and think there was to you no conscience of the housebreaker,
	dr. van helsing	what would you do?
	jonathan harker	I should get a respectable locksmith, and set him to work to pick the lock for me.
	dr. van helsing	And your police, they would interfere, would they not?
	jonathan harker	Oh, no! not if they knew the man was properly employed.
	dr. van helsing	Then, he looked at me as keenly as he spoke, all that is in doubt is the conscience of the employer,
	dr. van helsing	and the belief of your policemen as to whether or no that employer has a good conscience or a bad one.
	dr. van helsing	Your police must indeed be zealous men and clever--oh, so clever!--in reading the heart, that they trouble themselves in such matter.
	dr. van helsing	No, no, my friend Jonathan, you go take the lock off a hundred empty house in this your London,
	dr. van helsing	or of any city in the world; and if you do it as such things are rightly done,
	dr. van helsing	and at the time such things are rightly done, no one will interfere. I have read of a gentleman who owned a so fine house in London,
	dr. van helsing	and when he went for months of summer to Switzerland and lock up his house, some burglar came and broke window at back and got in.
	dr. van helsing	Then he went and made open the shutters in front and walk out and in through the door,
	dr. van helsing	before the very eyes of the police. Then he have an auction in that house, and advertise it,
	dr. van helsing	and put up big notice; and when the day come he sell off by a great auctioneer all the goods of that other man who own them.
	dr. van helsing	Then he go to a builder, and he sell him that house, making an agreement that he pull it down and take all away within a certain time.
	dr. van helsing	And your police and other authority help him all they can. And when that owner come back from his holiday in Switzerland he find only an empty hole where his house had been.
	dr. van helsing	This was all done en règle; and in our work we shall be en règle too.
	dr. van helsing	We shall not go so early that the policemen who have then little to think of,
	dr. van helsing	shall deem it strange; but we shall go after ten o'clock, when there are many about,
	dr. van helsing	and such things would be done were we indeed owners of the house.
	narrator	I could not but see how right he was and the terrible despair of Mina's face became relaxed a thought; there was hope in such good counsel.
	dr. van helsing	When once within that house we may find more clues; at any rate some of us can remain there whilst the rest find the other places where there be more earth-boxes--at Bermondsey and Mile End.
	lord godalming	I can be of some use here. I shall wire to my people to have horses and carriages where they will be most convenient.
	quincey morris	Look here, old fellow, it is a capital idea to have all ready in case we want to go horsebacking; but don't you think that one of your snappy carriages with its heraldic adornments in a byway of Walworth or Mile End would attract too much attention for our purposes?
	quincey morris	It seems to me that we ought to take cabs when we go south or east; and even leave them somewhere near the neighbourhood we are going to.
	dr. van helsing	Friend Quincey is right! His head is what you call in plane with the horizon. It is a difficult thing that we go to do,
	dr. van helsing	and we do not want no peoples to watch us if so it may.
	narrator	Mina took a growing interest in everything and I was rejoiced to see that the exigency of affairs was helping her to forget for a time the terrible experience of the night.
	narrator	She was very, very pale--almost ghastly, and so thin that her lips were drawn away, showing her teeth in somewhat of prominence.
	narrator	I did not mention this last, lest it should give her needless pain; but it made my blood run cold in my veins to think of what had occurred with poor Lucy when the Count had sucked her blood.
	narrator	As yet there was no sign of the teeth growing sharper; but the time as yet was short,
	narrator	and there was time for fear. When we came to the discussion of the sequence of our efforts and of the disposition of our forces,
	narrator	there were new sources of doubt. It was finally agreed that before starting for Piccadilly we should destroy the Count's lair close at hand.
	narrator	In case he should find it out too soon, we should thus be still ahead of him in our work of destruction; and his presence in his purely material shape,
	narrator	and at his weakest, might give us some new clue. As to the disposal of forces,
	narrator	it was suggested by the Professor that, after our visit to Carfax, we should all enter the house in Piccadilly; that the two doctors and I should remain there,
	narrator	whilst Lord Godalming and Quincey found the lairs at Walworth and Mile End and destroyed them.
	narrator	It was possible, if not likely, the Professor urged, that the Count might appear in Piccadilly during the day,
	narrator	and that if so we might be able to cope with him then and there. At any rate,
	narrator	we might be able to follow him in force. To this plan I strenuously objected, and so far as my going was concerned,
	narrator	for I said that I intended to stay and protect Mina, I thought that my mind was made up on the subject; but Mina would not listen to my objection.
	mina harker	That there might be some law matter in which I could be useful; that amongst the Count's papers might be some clue which I could understand out of my experience in Transylvania; and that,
	mina harker	as it was, all the strength we could muster was required to cope with the Count's extraordinary power.
	mina harker	I had to give in, for Mina's resolution was fixed; she said that it was the last hope for _her_ that we should all work together.
	mina harker	As for me, I have no fear. Things have been as bad as they can be; and whatever may happen must have in it some element of hope or comfort.
	mina harker	Go, my husband! God can, if He wishes it, guard me as well alone as with any one present.
	jonathan harker	Then in God's name let us come at once, for we are losing time. The Count may come to Piccadilly earlier than we think.
	dr. van helsing	Not so!
	jonathan harker	But why?
	dr. van helsing	Do you forget, that last night he banqueted heavily, and will sleep late?
	narrator	Did I forget! shall I ever--can I ever! Can any of us ever forget that terrible scene!
	narrator	Mina struggled hard to keep her brave countenance; but the pain overmastered her and she put her hands before her face,
	narrator	and shuddered whilst she moaned.
	dr. van helsing	Oh, Madam Mina, dear, dear Madam Mina, alas! that I of all who so reverence you should have said anything so forgetful.
	dr. van helsing	These stupid old lips of mine and this stupid old head do not deserve so; but you will forget it,
	dr. van helsing	will you not?
	mina harker	No, I shall not forget, for it is well that I remember; and with it I have so much in memory of you that is sweet,
	mina harker	that I take it all together. Now, you must all be going soon. Breakfast is ready,
	mina harker	and we must all eat that we may be strong.
	narrator	Breakfast was a strange meal to us all. We tried to be cheerful and encourage each other,
	narrator	and Mina was the brightest and most cheerful of us.
	dr. van helsing	Now, my dear friends, we go forth to our terrible enterprise. Are we all armed, as we were on that night when first we visited our enemy's lair; armed against ghostly as well as carnal attack?
	narrator	We all assured him.
	dr. van helsing	Then it is well. Now, Madam Mina, you are in any case _quite_ safe here until the sunset; and before then we shall return--if---- We shall return!
	dr. van helsing	But before we go let me see you armed against personal attack. I have myself, since you came down,
	dr. van helsing	prepared your chamber by the placing of things of which we know, so that He may not enter.
	dr. van helsing	Now let me guard yourself. On your forehead I touch this piece of Sacred Wafer in the name of the Father,
	dr. van helsing	the Son, and----
	narrator	There was a fearful scream which almost froze our hearts to hear. As he had placed the Wafer on Mina's forehead,
	narrator	it had seared it--had burned into the flesh as though it had been a piece of white-hot metal.
	narrator	My poor darling's brain had told her the significance of the fact as quickly as her nerves received the pain of it; and the two so overwhelmed her that her overwrought nature had its voice in that dreadful scream.
	narrator	But the words to her thought came quickly; the echo of the scream had not ceased to ring on the air when there came the reaction,
	narrator	and she sank on her knees on the floor in an agony of abasement. Pulling her beautiful hair over her face,
	narrator	as the leper of old his mantle, she wailed out:
	mina harker	Unclean! Unclean! Even the Almighty shuns my polluted flesh! I must bear this mark of shame upon my forehead until the Judgment Day.
	narrator	They all paused. I had thrown myself beside her in an agony of helpless grief, and putting my arms around held her tight.
	narrator	For a few minutes our sorrowful hearts beat together, whilst the friends around us turned away their eyes that ran tears silently.
	dr. van helsing	It may be that you may have to bear that mark till God himself see fit,
	dr. van helsing	as He most surely shall, on the Judgment Day, to redress all wrongs of the earth and of His children that He has placed thereon.
	dr. van helsing	And oh, Madam Mina, my dear, my dear, may we who love you be there to see,
	dr. van helsing	when that red scar, the sign of God's knowledge of what has been, shall pass away,
	dr. van helsing	and leave your forehead as pure as the heart we know. For so surely as we live,
	dr. van helsing	that scar shall pass away when God sees right to lift the burden that is hard upon us.
	dr. van helsing	Till then we bear our Cross, as His Son did in obedience to His Will. It may be that we are chosen instruments of His good pleasure,
	dr. van helsing	and that we ascend to His bidding as that other through stripes and shame; through tears and blood; through doubts and fears,
	dr. van helsing	and all that makes the difference between God and man.
	narrator	There was hope in his words, and comfort; and they made for resignation. Mina and I both felt so,
	narrator	and simultaneously we each took one of the old man's hands and bent over and kissed it.
	narrator	Then without a word we all knelt down together, and, all holding hands, swore to be true to each other.
	narrator	We men pledged ourselves to raise the veil of sorrow from the head of her whom,
	narrator	each in his own way, we loved; and we prayed for help and guidance in the terrible task which lay before us.
	narrator	It was then time to start. So I said farewell to Mina, a parting which neither of us shall forget to our dying day; and we set out.
	narrator	To one thing I have made up my mind: if we find out that Mina must be a vampire in the end,
	narrator	then she shall not go into that unknown and terrible land alone. I suppose it is thus that in old times one vampire meant many; just as their hideous bodies could only rest in sacred earth,
	narrator	so the holiest love was the recruiting sergeant for their ghastly ranks. We entered Carfax without trouble and found all things the same as on the first occasion.
	narrator	It was hard to believe that amongst so prosaic surroundings of neglect and dust and decay there was any ground for such fear as already we knew.
	narrator	Had not our minds been made up, and had there not been terrible memories to spur us on,
	narrator	we could hardly have proceeded with our task. We found no papers, or any sign of use in the house; and in the old chapel the great boxes looked just as we had seen them last.
	dr. van helsing	And now, my friends, we have a duty here to do. We must sterilise this earth,
	dr. van helsing	so sacred of holy memories, that he has brought from a far distant land for such fell use.
	dr. van helsing	He has chosen this earth because it has been holy. Thus we defeat him with his own weapon,
	dr. van helsing	for we make it more holy still. It was sanctified to such use of man, now we sanctify it to God.
	narrator	As he spoke he took from his bag a screwdriver and a wrench, and very soon the top of one of the cases was thrown open.
	narrator	The earth smelled musty and close; but we did not somehow seem to mind, for our attention was concentrated on the Professor.
	dr. van helsing	Taking from his box a piece of the Sacred Wafer he laid it reverently on the earth,
	dr. van helsing	and then shutting down the lid began to screw it home, we aiding him as he worked.
	narrator	One by one we treated in the same way each of the great boxes, and left them as we had found them to all appearance; but in each was a portion of the Host.
	dr. van helsing	So much is already done. If it may be that with all the others we can be so successful,
	dr. van helsing	then the sunset of this evening may shine on Madam Mina's forehead all white as ivory and with no stain!
	narrator	As we passed across the lawn on our way to the station to catch our train we could see the front of the asylum.
	narrator	I looked eagerly, and in the window of my own room saw Mina. I waved my hand to her,
	narrator	and nodded to tell that our work there was successfully accomplished. She nodded in reply to show that she understood.
	narrator	The last I saw, she was waving her hand in farewell. It was with a heavy heart that we sought the station and just caught the train,
	narrator	which was steaming in as we reached the platform. I have written this in the train.
	narrator	* * * * * Piccadilly, 12:30 o'clock.--Just before we reached Fenchurch Street Lord Godalming said to me:
	quincey morris	Quincey and I will find a locksmith. You had better not come with us in case there should be any difficulty; for under the circumstances it wouldn't seem so bad for us to break into an empty house.
	quincey morris	But you are a solicitor and the Incorporated Law Society might tell you that you should have known better.
	jonathan harker	I demurred as to my not sharing any danger even of odium, but he went on:
	quincey morris	Besides, it will attract less attention if there are not too many of us. My title will make it all right with the locksmith,
	quincey morris	and with any policeman that may come along. You had better go with Jack and the Professor and stay in the Green Park,
	quincey morris	somewhere in sight of the house; and when you see the door opened and the smith has gone away,
	quincey morris	do you all come across. We shall be on the look-out for you, and shall let you in.
	jonathan harker	The advice is good!
	dr. van helsing	The advice is good!
	narrator	so we said no more. Godalming and Morris hurried off in a cab, we following in another.
	narrator	At the corner of Arlington Street our contingent got out and strolled into the Green Park.
	narrator	My heart beat as I saw the house on which so much of our hope was centred,
	narrator	looming up grim and silent in its deserted condition amongst its more lively and spruce-looking neighbours.
	narrator	We sat down on a bench within good view, and began to smoke cigars so as to attract as little attention as possible.
	narrator	The minutes seemed to pass with leaden feet as we waited for the coming of the others.
	narrator	At length we saw a four-wheeler drive up. Out of it, in leisurely fashion, got Lord Godalming and Morris; and down from the box descended a thick-set working man with his rush-woven basket of tools.
	quincey morris	Morris paid the cabman, who touched his hat and drove away.
	narrator	Together the two ascended the steps, and Lord Godalming pointed out what he wanted done. The workman took off his coat leisurely and hung it on one of the spikes of the rail,
	narrator	saying something to a policeman who just then sauntered along. The policeman nodded acquiescence, and the man kneeling down placed his bag beside him.
	narrator	After searching through it, he took out a selection of tools which he produced to lay beside him in orderly fashion.
	narrator	Then he stood up, looked into the keyhole, blew into it, and turning to his employers,
	narrator	made some remark.
	lord godalming	Lord Godalming smiled, and the man lifted a good-sized bunch of keys; selecting one of them,
	lord godalming	he began to probe the lock, as if feeling his way with it.
	narrator	After fumbling about for a bit he tried a second, and then a third. All at once the door opened under a slight push from him,
	narrator	and he and the two others entered the hall. We sat still; my own cigar burnt furiously,
	narrator	but Van Helsing's went cold altogether. We waited patiently as we saw the workman come out and bring in his bag.
	narrator	Then he held the door partly open, steadying it with his knees, whilst he fitted a key to the lock.
	narrator	This he finally handed to Lord Godalming, who took out his purse and gave him something.
	narrator	The man touched his hat, took his bag, put on his coat and departed; not a soul took the slightest notice of the whole transaction.
	narrator	When the man had fairly gone, we three crossed the street and knocked at the door.
	narrator	It was immediately opened by Quincey Morris, beside whom stood Lord Godalming lighting a cigar. The place smells so vilely,
	jonathan harker	The place smells so vilely,
	narrator	said the latter as we came in. It did indeed smell vilely--like the old chapel at Carfax--and with our previous experience it was plain to us that the Count had been using the place pretty freely.
	narrator	We moved to explore the house, all keeping together in case of attack; for we knew we had a strong and wily enemy to deal with,
	narrator	and as yet we did not know whether the Count might not be in the house.
	narrator	In the dining-room, which lay at the back of the hall, we found eight boxes of earth.
	narrator	Eight boxes only out of the nine, which we sought! Our work was not over, and would never be until we should have found the missing box.
	narrator	First we opened the shutters of the window which looked out across a narrow stone-flagged yard at the blank face of a stable,
	narrator	pointed to look like the front of a miniature house. There were no windows in it,
	narrator	so we were not afraid of being over-looked. We did not lose any time in examining the chests.
	narrator	With the tools which we had brought with us we opened them, one by one, and treated them as we had treated those others in the old chapel.
	narrator	It was evident to us that the Count was not at present in the house, and we proceeded to search for any of his effects.
	narrator	After a cursory glance at the rest of the rooms, from basement to attic, we came to the conclusion that the dining-room contained any effects which might belong to the Count; and so we proceeded to minutely examine them.
	narrator	They lay in a sort of orderly disorder on the great dining-room table. There were title deeds of the Piccadilly house in a great bundle; deeds of the purchase of the houses at Mile End and Bermondsey; note-paper,
	narrator	envelopes, and pens and ink. All were covered up in thin wrapping paper to keep them from the dust.
	narrator	There were also a clothes brush, a brush and comb, and a jug and basin--the latter containing dirty water which was reddened as if with blood.
	narrator	Last of all was a little heap of keys of all sorts and sizes, probably those belonging to the other houses.
	narrator	When we had examined this last find, Lord Godalming and Quincey Morris taking accurate notes of the various addresses of the houses in the East and the South,
	narrator	took with them the keys in a great bunch, and set out to destroy the boxes in these places.
	narrator	The rest of us are, with what patience we can, waiting their return--or the coming of the Count.
