	narrator	For a while sheer anger mastered me; it was as if he had during her life struck Lucy on the face.
	narrator	I smote the table hard and rose up as I said to him:
	dr. seward	Dr. Van Helsing, are you mad?
	van helsing	Would I were! Madness were easy to bear compared with truth like this. Oh, my friend,
	van helsing	why, think you, did I go so far round, why take so long to tell you so simple a thing?
	van helsing	Was it because I hate you and have hated you all my life? Was it because I wished to give you pain?
	van helsing	Was it that I wanted, now so late, revenge for that time when you saved my life,
	van helsing	and from a fearful death? Ah no!
	dr. seward	Forgive me.
	van helsing	My friend, it was because I wished to be gentle in the breaking to you, for I know you have loved that so sweet lady.
	van helsing	But even yet I do not expect you to believe. It is so hard to accept at once any abstract truth,
	van helsing	that we may doubt such to be possible when we have always believed the 'no' of it; it is more hard still to accept so sad a concrete truth,
	van helsing	and of such a one as Miss Lucy. To-night I go to prove it. Dare you come with me?
	narrator	This staggered me. A man does not like to prove such a truth; Byron excepted from the category,
	narrator	jealousy. 'And prove the very truth he most abhorred.'
	van helsing	The logic is simple, no madman's logic this time, jumping from tussock to tussock in a misty bog.
	van helsing	If it be not true, then proof will be relief; at worst it will not harm.
	van helsing	If it be true! Ah, there is the dread; yet very dread should help my cause,
	van helsing	for in it is some need of belief. Come, I tell you what I propose: first,
	van helsing	that we go off now and see that child in the hospital. Dr. Vincent, of the North Hospital,
	van helsing	where the papers say the child is, is friend of mine, and I think of yours since you were in class at Amsterdam.
	van helsing	He will let two scientists see his case, if he will not let two friends. We shall tell him nothing,
	van helsing	but only that we wish to learn. And then----
	dr. seward	And then?
	van helsing	And then we spend the night, you and I, in the churchyard where Lucy lies. This is the key that lock the tomb.
	van helsing	I had it from the coffin-man to give to Arthur.
	narrator	My heart sank within me, for I felt that there was some fearful ordeal before us.
	narrator	I could do nothing, however, so I plucked up what heart I could and said that we had better hasten,
	narrator	as the afternoon was passing. We found the child awake. It had had a sleep and taken some food,
	narrator	and altogether was going on well.
	dr. vincent	Out of so many harmless ones, there may be some wild specimen from the South of a more malignant species.
	dr. vincent	Some sailor may have brought one home, and it managed to escape; or even from the Zoölogical Gardens a young one may have got loose,
	dr. vincent	or one be bred there from a vampire. These things do occur, you know. Only ten days ago a wolf got out,
	dr. vincent	and was, I believe, traced up in this direction. For a week after, the children were playing nothing but Red Riding Hood on the Heath and in every alley in the place until this 'bloofer lady'
	dr. vincent	scare came along, since when it has been quite a gala-time with them. Even this poor little mite,
	dr. vincent	when he woke up to-day, asked the nurse if he might go away. When she asked him why he wanted to go,
	dr. vincent	he said he wanted to play with the 'bloofer lady.
	van helsing	I hope, that when you are sending the child home you will caution its parents to keep strict watch over it.
	van helsing	These fancies to stray are most dangerous; and if the child were to remain out another night,
	van helsing	it would probably be fatal. But in any case I suppose you will not let it away for some days?
	dr. vincent	Certainly not, not for a week at least; longer if the wound is not healed.
	narrator	Our visit to the hospital took more time than we had reckoned on, and the sun had dipped before we came out.
	narrator	When Van Helsing saw how dark it was, he said:
	van helsing	There is no hurry. It is more late than I thought. Come, let us seek somewhere that we may eat,
	van helsing	and then we shall go on our way.
	narrator	We dined at "Jack Straw's Castle" along with a little crowd of bicyclists and others who were genially noisy.
	narrator	About ten o'clock we started from the inn. It was then very dark, and the scattered lamps made the darkness greater when we were once outside their individual radius.
	narrator	The Professor had evidently noted the road we were to go, for he went on unhesitatingly; but,
	narrator	as for me, I was in quite a mixup as to locality. As we went further,
	narrator	we met fewer and fewer people, till at last we were somewhat surprised when we met even the patrol of horse police going their usual suburban round.
	narrator	At last we reached the wall of the churchyard, which we climbed over. With some little difficulty--for it was very dark,
	narrator	and the whole place seemed so strange to us--we found the Westenra tomb.
	van helsing	The Professor took the key, opened the creaky door, and standing back, politely, but quite unconsciously,
	van helsing	motioned me to precede him.
	narrator	There was a delicious irony in the offer, in the courtliness of giving preference on such a ghastly occasion.
	narrator	My companion followed me quickly, and cautiously drew the door to, after carefully ascertaining that the lock was a falling,
	narrator	and not a spring, one. In the latter case we should have been in a bad plight.
	narrator	Then he fumbled in his bag, and taking out a matchbox and a piece of candle,
	narrator	proceeded to make a light. The tomb in the day-time, and when wreathed with fresh flowers,
	narrator	had looked grim and gruesome enough; but now, some days afterwards, when the flowers hung lank and dead,
	narrator	their whites turning to rust and their greens to browns; when the spider and the beetle had resumed their accustomed dominance; when time-discoloured stone,
	narrator	and dust-encrusted mortar, and rusty, dank iron, and tarnished brass, and clouded silver-plating gave back the feeble glimmer of a candle,
	narrator	the effect was more miserable and sordid than could have been imagined. It conveyed irresistibly the idea that life--animal life--was not the only thing which could pass away.
	van helsing	Van Helsing went about his work systematically. Holding his candle so that he could read the coffin plates,
	van helsing	and so holding it that the sperm dropped in white patches which congealed as they touched the metal,
	van helsing	he made assurance of Lucy's coffin. Another search in his bag, and he took out a turnscrew.
	dr. seward	What are you going to do?
	van helsing	To open the coffin. You shall yet be convinced. Straightway he began taking out the screws,
	van helsing	and finally lifted off the lid, showing the casing of lead beneath.
	dr. seward	The sight was almost too much for me. It seemed to be as much an affront to the dead as it would have been to have stripped off her clothing in her sleep whilst living; I actually took hold of his hand to stop him.
	van helsing	You shall see," and again fumbling in his bag, took out a tiny fret-saw. Striking the turnscrew through the lead with a swift downward stab,
	van helsing	which made me wince, he made a small hole, which was, however, big enough to admit the point of the saw.
	dr. seward	I had expected a rush of gas from the week-old corpse.
	narrator	We doctors, who have had to study our dangers, have to become accustomed to such things,
	narrator	and I drew back towards the door.
	van helsing	But the Professor never stopped for a moment; he sawed down a couple of feet along one side of the lead coffin,
	van helsing	and then across, and down the other side. Taking the edge of the loose flange, he bent it back towards the foot of the coffin,
	van helsing	and holding up the candle into the aperture, motioned to me to look.
	dr. seward	I drew near and looked. The coffin was empty.
	narrator	It was certainly a surprise to me, and gave me a considerable shock, but Van Helsing was unmoved.
	narrator	He was now more sure than ever of his ground, and so emboldened to proceed in his task.
	van helsing	Are you satisfied now, friend John?
	dr. seward	I felt all the dogged argumentativeness of my nature awake within me as I answered him: I am satisfied that Lucy's body is not in that coffin; but that only proves one thing.
	van helsing	And what is that, friend John?
	dr. seward	That it is not there.
	van helsing	That is good logic," he said, "so far as it goes. But how do you--how can you--account for it not being there?
	dr. seward	Perhaps a body-snatcher," I suggested. Some of the undertaker's people may have stolen it.
	narrator	I felt that I was speaking folly, and yet it was the only real cause which I could suggest.
	van helsing	Ah well!" he said, "we must have more proof. Come with me. He put on the coffin-lid again,
	van helsing	gathered up all his things and placed them in the bag, blew out the light, and placed the candle also in the bag.
	van helsing	We opened the door, and went out.
	narrator	Behind us he closed the door and locked it.
	van helsing	He handed me the key, saying: "Will you keep it? You had better be assured.
	dr. seward	I laughed--it was not a very cheerful laugh, I am bound to say--as I motioned him to keep it.
	dr. seward	A key is nothing," I said; "there may be duplicates; and anyhow it is not difficult to pick a lock of that kind.
	van helsing	He said nothing, but put the key in his pocket. Then he told me to watch at one side of the churchyard whilst he would watch at the other.
	dr. seward	I took up my place behind a yew-tree, and I saw his dark figure move until the intervening headstones and trees hid it from my sight.
	narrator	It was a lonely vigil. Just after I had taken my place I heard a distant clock strike twelve,
	narrator	and in time came one and two. I was chilled and unnerved, and angry with the Professor for taking me on such an errand and with myself for coming.
	narrator	I was too cold and too sleepy to be keenly observant, and not sleepy enough to betray my trust so altogether I had a dreary,
	narrator	miserable time. Suddenly, as I turned round, I thought I saw something like a white streak,
	narrator	moving between two dark yew-trees at the side of the churchyard farthest from the tomb; at the same time a dark mass moved from the Professor's side of the ground,
	narrator	and hurriedly went towards it. Then I too moved; but I had to go round headstones and railed-off tombs,
	narrator	and I stumbled over graves. The sky was overcast, and somewhere far off an early cock crew.
	narrator	A little way off, beyond a line of scattered juniper-trees, which marked the pathway to the church,
	narrator	a white, dim figure flitted in the direction of the tomb. The tomb itself was hidden by trees,
	narrator	and I could not see where the figure disappeared. I heard the rustle of actual movement where I had first seen the white figure,
	narrator	and coming over, found the Professor holding in his arms a tiny child. When he saw me he held it out to me,
	narrator	and said:
	van helsing	Are you satisfied now?
	dr. seward	No, I said, in a way that I felt was aggressive.
	van helsing	Do you not see the child?
	dr. seward	Yes, it is a child, but who brought it here? And is it wounded?
	van helsing	We shall see, said the Professor, and with one impulse we took our way out of the churchyard,
	van helsing	he carrying the sleeping child.
	narrator	When we had got some little distance away, we went into a clump of trees, and struck a match,
	narrator	and looked at the child's throat. It was without a scratch or scar of any kind.
	dr. seward	Was I right? I asked triumphantly.
	van helsing	We were just in time, said the Professor thankfully.
	narrator	We had now to decide what we were to do with the child, and so consulted about it.
	narrator	If we were to take it to a police-station we should have to give some account of our movements during the night; at least,
	narrator	we should have had to make some statement as to how we had come to find the child.
	narrator	So finally we decided that we would take it to the Heath, and when we heard a policeman coming,
	narrator	would leave it where he could not fail to find it; we would then seek our way home as quickly as we could.
	narrator	All fell out well. At the edge of Hampstead Heath we heard a policeman's heavy tramp,
	narrator	and laying the child on the pathway, we waited and watched until he saw it as he flashed his lantern to and fro.
	narrator	We heard his exclamation of astonishment, and then we went away silently. By good chance we got a cab near the 'Spaniards,'
	narrator	and drove to town. I cannot sleep, so I make this entry. But I must try to get a few hours'
	narrator	sleep, as Van Helsing is to call for me at noon. He insists that I shall go with him on another expedition.
	narrator	_27 September.--It was two o'clock before we found a suitable opportunity for our attempt. The funeral held at noon was all completed,
	narrator	and the last stragglers of the mourners had taken themselves lazily away, when, looking carefully from behind a clump of alder-trees,
	narrator	we saw the sexton lock the gate after him. We knew then that we were safe till morning did we desire it; but the Professor told me that we should not want more than an hour at most.
	narrator	Again I felt that horrid sense of the reality of things, in which any effort of imagination seemed out of place; and I realised distinctly the perils of the law which we were incurring in our unhallowed work.
	narrator	Besides, I felt it was all so useless. Outrageous as it was to open a leaden coffin,
	narrator	to see if a woman dead nearly a week were really dead, it now seemed the height of folly to open the tomb again,
	narrator	when we knew, from the evidence of our own eyesight, that the coffin was empty. I shrugged my shoulders,
	narrator	however, and rested silent, for Van Helsing had a way of going on his own road,
	narrator	no matter who remonstrated. He took the key, opened the vault, and again courteously motioned me to precede.
	narrator	The place was not so gruesome as last night, but oh, how unutterably mean-looking when the sunshine streamed in.
	narrator	Van Helsing walked over to Lucy's coffin, and I followed. He bent over and again forced back the leaden flange; and then a shock of surprise and dismay shot through me.
	narrator	There lay Lucy, seemingly just as we had seen her the night before her funeral. She was,
	narrator	if possible, more radiantly beautiful than ever; and I could not believe that she was dead.
	narrator	The lips were red, nay redder than before; and on the cheeks was a delicate bloom.
	dr. seward	Is this a juggle?
	van helsing	Are you convinced now? said the Professor in response, and as he spoke he put over his hand,
	van helsing	and in a way that made me shudder, pulled back the dead lips and showed the white teeth.
	van helsing	See, he went on, "see, they are even sharper than before. With this and this"--and he touched one of the canine teeth and that below it--"the little children can be bitten.
	van helsing	Are you of belief now, friend John?" Once more, argumentative hostility woke within me. I _could_ not accept such an overwhelming idea as he suggested; so,
	van helsing	with an attempt to argue of which I was even at the moment ashamed, I said:
	dr. seward	She may have been placed here since last night.
	van helsing	Indeed? That is so, and by whom?
	dr. seward	I do not know. Some one has done it.
	van helsing	And yet she has been dead one week. Most peoples in that time would not look so.
	dr. seward	I had no answer for this, so was silent.
	van helsing	Van Helsing did not seem to notice my silence; at any rate, he showed neither chagrin nor triumph.
	van helsing	He was looking intently at the face of the dead woman, raising the eyelids and looking at the eyes,
	van helsing	and once more opening the lips and examining the teeth. Then he turned to me and said: Here,
	van helsing	there is one thing which is different from all recorded; here is some dual life that is not as the common.
	van helsing	She was bitten by the vampire when she was in a trance, sleep-walking--oh, you start; you do not know that,
	van helsing	friend John, but you shall know it all later--and in trance could he best come to take more blood.
	van helsing	In trance she died, and in trance she is Un-Dead, too. So it is that she differ from all other.
	van helsing	Usually when the Un-Dead sleep at home
	narrator	as he spoke he made a comprehensive sweep of his arm to designate what to a vampire was "home"
	van helsing	their face show what they are, but this so sweet that was when she not Un-Dead she go back to the nothings of the common dead.
	van helsing	There is no malign there, see, and so it make hard that I must kill her in her sleep.
	narrator	This turned my blood cold, and it began to dawn upon me that I was accepting Van Helsing's theories; but if she were really dead,
	narrator	what was there of terror in the idea of killing her?
	van helsing	Ah, you believe now?
	dr. seward	Do not press me too hard all at once. I am willing to accept. How will you do this bloody work?
	van helsing	I shall cut off her head and fill her mouth with garlic, and I shall drive a stake through her body.
	narrator	It made me shudder to think of so mutilating the body of the woman whom I had loved.
	narrator	And yet the feeling was not so strong as I had expected. I was, in fact,
	narrator	beginning to shudder at the presence of this being, this Un-Dead, as Van Helsing called it,
	narrator	and to loathe it. Is it possible that love is all subjective, or all objective? I waited a considerable time for Van Helsing to begin,
	narrator	but he stood as if wrapped in thought. Presently he closed the catch of his bag with a snap,
	narrator	and said:
	van helsing	I have been thinking, and have made up my mind as to what is best. If I did simply follow my inclining I would do now,
	van helsing	at this moment, what is to be done; but there are other things to follow, and things that are thousand times more difficult in that them we do not know.
	van helsing	This is simple. She have yet no life taken, though that is of time; and to act now would be to take danger from her for ever.
	van helsing	But then we may have to want Arthur, and how shall we tell him of this?
	van helsing	If you, who saw the wounds on Lucy's throat, and saw the wounds so similar on the child's at the hospital; if you,
	van helsing	who saw the coffin empty last night and full to-day with a woman who have not change only to be more rose and more beautiful in a whole week,
	van helsing	after she die--if you know of this and know of the white figure last night that brought the child to the churchyard,
	van helsing	and yet of your own senses you did not believe, how, then, can I expect Arthur,
	van helsing	who know none of those things, to believe? He doubted me when I took him from her kiss when she was dying.
	van helsing	I know he has forgiven me because in some mistaken idea I have done things that prevent him say good-bye as he ought; and he may think that in some more mistaken idea this woman was buried alive; and that in most mistake of all we have killed her.
	van helsing	He will then argue back that it is we, mistaken ones, that have killed her by our ideas; and so he will be much unhappy always.
	van helsing	Yet he never can be sure; and that is the worst of all. And he will sometimes think that she he loved was buried alive,
	van helsing	and that will paint his dreams with horrors of what she must have suffered; and again,
	van helsing	he will think that we may be right, and that his so beloved was, after all,
	van helsing	an Un-Dead. No! I told him once, and since then I learn much. Now, since I know it is all true,
	van helsing	a hundred thousand times more do I know that he must pass through the bitter waters to reach the sweet.
	van helsing	He, poor fellow, must have one hour that will make the very face of heaven grow black to him; then we can act for good all round and send him peace.
	van helsing	My mind is made up. Let us go. You return home for to-night to your asylum,
	van helsing	and see that all be well. As for me, I shall spend the night here in this churchyard in my own way.
	van helsing	To-morrow night you will come to me to the Berkeley Hotel at ten of the clock.
	van helsing	I shall send for Arthur to come too, and also that so fine young man of America that gave his blood.
	van helsing	Later we shall all have work to do. I come with you so far as Piccadilly and there dine,
	van helsing	for I must be back here before the sun set.
	narrator	So we locked the tomb and came away, and got over the wall of the churchyard,
	narrator	which was not much of a task, and drove back to Piccadilly. _Note left by Van Helsing in his portmanteau,
	narrator	Berkeley Hotel directed to John Seward, M. D._ (Not delivered.)
	van helsing	_27 September._ Friend John,-- I write this in case anything should happen. I go alone to watch in that churchyard.
	van helsing	It pleases me that the Un-Dead, Miss Lucy, shall not leave to-night, that so on the morrow night she may be more eager.
	van helsing	Therefore I shall fix some things she like not--garlic and a crucifix--and so seal up the door of the tomb.
	van helsing	She is young as Un-Dead, and will heed. Moreover, these are only to prevent her coming out; they may not prevail on her wanting to get in; for then the Un-Dead is desperate,
	van helsing	and must find the line of least resistance, whatsoever it may be. I shall be at hand all the night from sunset till after the sunrise,
	van helsing	and if there be aught that may be learned I shall learn it. For Miss Lucy or from her,
	van helsing	I have no fear; but that other to whom is there that she is Un-Dead, he have now the power to seek her tomb and find shelter.
	van helsing	He is cunning, as I know from Mr. Jonathan and from the way that all along he have fooled us when he played with us for Miss Lucy's life,
	van helsing	and we lost; and in many ways the Un-Dead are strong. He have always the strength in his hand of twenty men; even we four who gave our strength to Miss Lucy it also is all to him.
	van helsing	Besides, he can summon his wolf and I know not what. So if it be that he come thither on this night he shall find me; but none other shall--until it be too late.
	van helsing	But it may be that he will not attempt the place. There is no reason why he should; his hunting ground is more full of game than the churchyard where the Un-Dead woman sleep,
	van helsing	and the one old man watch. Therefore I write this in case.... Take the papers that are with this,
	van helsing	the diaries of Harker and the rest, and read them, and then find this great Un-Dead,
	van helsing	and cut off his head and burn his heart or drive a stake through it, so that the world may rest from him.
	van helsing	If it be so, farewell.
	narrator	Dr. Seward's Diary. 28 September.--It is wonderful what a good night's sleep will do for one.
	narrator	Yesterday I was almost willing to accept Van Helsing's monstrous ideas; but now they seem to start out lurid before me as outrages on common sense.
	narrator	I have no doubt that he believes it all. I wonder if his mind can have become in any way unhinged.
	narrator	Surely there must be some rational explanation of all these mysterious things. Is it possible that the Professor can have done it himself?
	narrator	He is so abnormally clever that if he went off his head he would carry out his intent with regard to some fixed idea in a wonderful way.
	narrator	I am loath to think it, and indeed it would be almost as great a marvel as the other to find that Van Helsing was mad; but anyhow I shall watch him carefully.
	narrator	I may get some light on the mystery. 29 September, morning.... Last night, at a little before ten o'clock,
	narrator	Arthur and Quincey came into Van Helsing's room; he told us all that he wanted us to do,
	narrator	but especially addressing himself to Arthur, as if all our wills were centred in his. He began by saying that he hoped we would all come with him too,
	narrator	"for," he said, "there is a grave duty to be done there. You were doubtless surprised at my letter?"
	narrator	This query was directly addressed to Lord Godalming.
	arthur holmwood	I was. It rather upset me for a bit. There has been so much trouble around my house of late that I could do without any more.
	arthur holmwood	I have been curious, too, as to what you mean. Quincey and I talked it over; but the more we talked,
	arthur holmwood	the more puzzled we got, till now I can say for myself that I'm about up a tree as to any meaning about anything.
	quincey morris	Me too.
	van helsing	Oh, then you are nearer the beginning, both of you, than friend John here, who has to go a long way back before he can even get so far as to begin.
	narrator	It was evident that he recognised my return to my old doubting frame of mind without my saying a word.
	narrator	Then, turning to the other two, he said with intense gravity:
	van helsing	I want your permission to do what I think good this night. It is, I know,
	van helsing	much to ask; and when you know what it is I propose to do you will know,
	van helsing	and only then, how much. Therefore may I ask that you promise me in the dark,
	van helsing	so that afterwards, though you may be angry with me for a time--I must not disguise from myself the possibility that such may be--you shall not blame yourselves for anything.
	quincey morris	That's frank anyhow. I'll answer for the Professor. I don't quite see his drift, but I swear he's honest; and that's good enough for me.
	van helsing	I thank you, sir. I have done myself the honour of counting you one trusting friend,
	van helsing	and such endorsement is dear to me.
	narrator	He held out a hand, which Quincey took.
	arthur holmwood	Dr. Van Helsing, I don't quite like to 'buy a pig in a poke,' as they say in Scotland,
	arthur holmwood	and if it be anything in which my honour as a gentleman or my faith as a Christian is concerned,
	arthur holmwood	I cannot make such a promise. If you can assure me that what you intend does not violate either of these two,
	arthur holmwood	then I give my consent at once; though for the life of me, I cannot understand what you are driving at.
	van helsing	I accept your limitation, and all I ask of you is that if you feel it necessary to condemn any act of mine,
	van helsing	you will first consider it well and be satisfied that it does not violate your reservations.
	arthur holmwood	Agreed! That is only fair. And now that the pourparlers are over, may I ask what it is we are to do?
	van helsing	I want you to come with me, and to come in secret, to the churchyard at Kingstead.
	arthur holmwood	Where poor Lucy is buried?
	van helsing	The Professor bowed.
	arthur holmwood	And when there?
	van helsing	To enter the tomb!
	narrator	This is too much!
	arthur holmwood	I am willing to be patient in all things that are reasonable; but in this--this desecration of the grave--of one who----
	narrator	He fairly choked with indignation.
	van helsing	If I could spare you one pang, my poor friend, God knows I would. But this night our feet must tread in thorny paths; or later,
	van helsing	and for ever, the feet you love must walk in paths of flame!
	arthur holmwood	Take care, sir, take care!
	van helsing	Would it not be well to hear what I have to say? And then you will at least know the limit of my purpose.
	van helsing	Shall I go on?
	quincey morris	That's fair enough.
	van helsing	Miss Lucy is dead; is it not so? Yes! Then there can be no wrong to her.
	van helsing	But if she be not dead----
	arthur holmwood	Good God! What do you mean? Has there been any mistake; has she been buried alive?
	narrator	He groaned in anguish that not even hope could soften.
	van helsing	I did not say she was alive, my child; I did not think it. I go no further than to say that she might be Un-Dead.
	arthur holmwood	Un-Dead! Not alive! What do you mean? Is this all a nightmare, or what is it?
	van helsing	There are mysteries which men can only guess at, which age by age they may solve only in part.
	van helsing	Believe me, we are now on the verge of one. But I have not done. May I cut off the head of dead Miss Lucy?
	arthur holmwood	Heavens and earth, no! Not for the wide world will I consent to any mutilation of her dead body.
	arthur holmwood	Dr. Van Helsing, you try me too far. What have I done to you that you should torture me so?
	arthur holmwood	What did that poor, sweet girl do that you should want to cast such dishonour on her grave?
	arthur holmwood	Are you mad to speak such things, or am I mad to listen to them? Don't dare to think more of such a desecration; I shall not give my consent to anything you do.
	arthur holmwood	I have a duty to do in protecting her grave from outrage; and, by God, I shall do it!
	van helsing	My Lord Godalming, I, too, have a duty to do, a duty to others, a duty to you,
	van helsing	a duty to the dead; and, by God, I shall do it! All I ask you now is that you come with me,
	van helsing	that you look and listen; and if when later I make the same request you do not be more eager for its fulfilment even than I am,
	van helsing	then--then I shall do my duty, whatever it may seem to me. And then, to follow of your Lordship's wishes I shall hold myself at your disposal to render an account to you,
	van helsing	when and where you will.
	narrator	His voice broke a little, and he went on with a voice full of pity:
	van helsing	But, I beseech you, do not go forth in anger with me. In a long life of acts which were often not pleasant to do,
	van helsing	and which sometimes did wring my heart, I have never had so heavy a task as now.
	van helsing	Believe me that if the time comes for you to change your mind towards me, one look from you will wipe away all this so sad hour,
	van helsing	for I would do what a man can to save you from sorrow. Just think. For why should I give myself so much of labour and so much of sorrow?
	van helsing	I have come here from my own land to do what I can of good; at the first to please my friend John,
	van helsing	and then to help a sweet young lady, whom, too, I came to love. For her--I am ashamed to say so much,
	van helsing	but I say it in kindness--I gave what you gave; the blood of my veins; I gave it,
	van helsing	I, who was not, like you, her lover, but only her physician and her friend. I gave to her my nights and days--before death,
	van helsing	after death; and if my death can do her good even now, when she is the dead Un-Dead,
	van helsing	she shall have it freely.
	arthur holmwood	Oh, it is hard to think of it, and I cannot understand; but at least I shall go with you and wait.
