	narrator	CHAPTER I JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL (_Kept in shorthand._) _3 May. Bistritz._--Left Munich at 8:35 P. M.,
	narrator	on 1st May, arriving at Vienna early next morning; should have arrived at 6:46, but train was an hour late.
	narrator	Buda-Pesth seems a wonderful place, from the glimpse which I got of it from the train and the little I could walk through the streets.
	narrator	I feared to go very far from the station, as we had arrived late and would start as near the correct time as possible.
	narrator	The impression I had was that we were leaving the West and entering the East; the most western of splendid bridges over the Danube,
	narrator	which is here of noble width and depth, took us among the traditions of Turkish rule.
	narrator	We left in pretty good time, and came after nightfall to Klausenburgh. Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel Royale.
	narrator	I had for dinner, or rather supper, a chicken done up some way with red pepper,
	narrator	which was very good but thirsty. (_Mem._, get recipe for Mina.) I asked the waiter, and he said it was called "paprika hendl,"
	narrator	and that, as it was a national dish, I should be able to get it anywhere along the Carpathians.
	narrator	I found my smattering of German very useful here; indeed, I don't know how I should be able to get on without it.
	narrator	Having had some time at my disposal when in London, I had visited the British Museum,
	narrator	and made search among the books and maps in the library regarding Transylvania; it had struck me that some foreknowledge of the country could hardly fail to have some importance in dealing with a nobleman of that country.
	narrator	I find that the district he named is in the extreme east of the country, just on the borders of three states,
	narrator	Transylvania, Moldavia and Bukovina, in the midst of the Carpathian mountains; one of the wildest and least known portions of Europe.
	narrator	I was not able to light on any map or work giving the exact locality of the Castle Dracula,
	narrator	as there are no maps of this country as yet to compare with our own Ordnance Survey maps; but I found that Bistritz,
	narrator	the post town named by Count Dracula, is a fairly well-known place. I shall enter here some of my notes,
	narrator	as they may refresh my memory when I talk over my travels with Mina. In the population of Transylvania there are four distinct nationalities: Saxons in the South,
	narrator	and mixed with them the Wallachs, who are the descendants of the Dacians; Magyars in the West,
	narrator	and Szekelys in the East and North. I am going among the latter, who claim to be descended from Attila and the Huns.
	narrator	This may be so, for when the Magyars conquered the country in the eleventh century they found the Huns settled in it.
	narrator	I read that every known superstition in the world is gathered into the horseshoe of the Carpathians,
	narrator	as if it were the centre of some sort of imaginative whirlpool; if so my stay may be very interesting.
	narrator	(_Mem._, I must ask the Count all about them.) I did not sleep well, though my bed was comfortable enough,
	narrator	for I had all sorts of queer dreams. There was a dog howling all night under my window,
	narrator	which may have had something to do with it; or it may have been the paprika,
	narrator	for I had to drink up all the water in my carafe, and was still thirsty.
	narrator	Towards morning I slept and was wakened by the continuous knocking at my door, so I guess I must have been sleeping soundly then.
	narrator	I had for breakfast more paprika, and a sort of porridge of maize flour which they said was "mamaliga,"
	narrator	and egg-plant stuffed with forcemeat, a very excellent dish, which they call "impletata." (_Mem._, get recipe for this also.) I had to hurry breakfast,
	narrator	for the train started a little before eight, or rather it ought to have done so,
	narrator	for after rushing to the station at 7:30 I had to sit in the carriage for more than an hour before we began to move.
	narrator	It seems to me that the further east you go the more unpunctual are the trains.
	narrator	What ought they to be in China? All day long we seemed to dawdle through a country which was full of beauty of every kind.
	narrator	Sometimes we saw little towns or castles on the top of steep hills such as we see in old missals; sometimes we ran by rivers and streams which seemed from the wide stony margin on each side of them to be subject to great floods.
	narrator	It takes a lot of water, and running strong, to sweep the outside edge of a river clear.
	narrator	At every station there were groups of people, sometimes crowds, and in all sorts of attire.
	narrator	Some of them were just like the peasants at home or those I saw coming through France and Germany,
	narrator	with short jackets and round hats and home-made trousers; but others were very picturesque. The women looked pretty,
	narrator	except when you got near them, but they were very clumsy about the waist. They had all full white sleeves of some kind or other,
	narrator	and most of them had big belts with a lot of strips of something fluttering from them like the dresses in a ballet,
	narrator	but of course there were petticoats under them. The strangest figures we saw were the Slovaks,
	narrator	who were more barbarian than the rest, with their big cow-boy hats, great baggy dirty-white trousers,
	narrator	white linen shirts, and enormous heavy leather belts, nearly a foot wide, all studded over with brass nails.
	narrator	They wore high boots, with their trousers tucked into them, and had long black hair and heavy black moustaches.
	narrator	They are very picturesque, but do not look prepossessing. On the stage they would be set down at once as some old Oriental band of brigands.
	narrator	They are, however, I am told, very harmless and rather wanting in natural self-assertion. It was on the dark side of twilight when we got to Bistritz,
	narrator	which is a very interesting old place. Being practically on the frontier--for the Borgo Pass leads from it into Bukovina--it has had a very stormy existence,
	narrator	and it certainly shows marks of it. Fifty years ago a series of great fires took place,
	narrator	which made terrible havoc on five separate occasions. At the very beginning of the seventeenth century it underwent a siege of three weeks and lost 13,000 people,
	narrator	the casualties of war proper being assisted by famine and disease. Count Dracula had directed me to go to the Golden Krone Hotel,
	narrator	which I found, to my great delight, to be thoroughly old-fashioned, for of course I wanted to see all I could of the ways of the country.
	narrator	I was evidently expected, for when I got near the door I faced a cheery-looking elderly woman in the usual peasant dress--white undergarment with long double apron,
	narrator	front, and back, of coloured stuff fitting almost too tight for modesty.
	the old lady	The Herr Englishman?
	jonathan harker	Yes, I am Jonathan Harker.
	the old lady	She smiled, and gave some message to an elderly man in white shirt-sleeves, who had followed her to the door.
	the old lady	He went, but immediately returned with a letter:
	narrator	"My Friend.--Welcome to the Carpathians. I am anxiously expecting you. Sleep well to-night. At three to-morrow the diligence will start for Bukovina; a place on it is kept for you.
	narrator	At the Borgo Pass my carriage will await you and will bring you to me. I trust that your journey from London has been a happy one,
	narrator	and that you will enjoy your stay in my beautiful land." "Your friend," "DRACULA."
	jonathan harker	4 May.--I found that my landlord had got a letter from the Count, directing him to secure the best place on the coach for me; but on making inquiries as to details he seemed somewhat reticent,
	jonathan harker	and pretended that he could not understand my German. This could not be true, because up to then he had understood it perfectly; at least,
	jonathan harker	he answered my questions exactly as if he did.
	narrator	He and his wife, the old lady who had received me, looked at each other in a frightened sort of way.
	narrator	He mumbled out that the money had been sent in a letter, and that was all he knew.
	narrator	When I asked him if he knew Count Dracula, and could tell me anything of his castle,
	narrator	both he and his wife crossed themselves, and, saying that they knew nothing at all, simply refused to speak further.
	narrator	It was so near the time of starting that I had no time to ask any one else,
	narrator	for it was all very mysterious and not by any means comforting. Just before I was leaving,
	narrator	the old lady came up to my room and said in a very hysterical way:
	the old lady	Must you go? Oh! young Herr, must you go?
	narrator	She was in such an excited state that she seemed to have lost her grip of what German she knew,
	narrator	and mixed it all up with some other language which I did not know at all.
	narrator	I was just able to follow her by asking many questions.
	the old lady	Do you know what day it is?
	jonathan harker	It is the fourth of May.
	the old lady	Oh, yes! I know that! I know that, but do you know what day it is?
	jonathan harker	On my saying that I did not understand, she went on:
	the old lady	It is the eve of St. George's Day. Do you not know that to-night, when the clock strikes midnight,
	the old lady	all the evil things in the world will have full sway? Do you know where you are going,
	the old lady	and what you are going to?
	narrator	She was in such evident distress that I tried to comfort her, but without effect. Finally she went down on her knees and implored me not to go; at least to wait a day or two before starting.
	narrator	It was all very ridiculous but I did not feel comfortable. However, there was business to be done,
	narrator	and I could allow nothing to interfere with it. I therefore tried to raise her up,
	narrator	and said, as gravely as I could, that I thanked her, but my duty was imperative,
	narrator	and that I must go.
	the old lady	For your mother's sake,
	narrator	and went out of the room. I am writing up this part of the diary whilst I am waiting for the coach,
	narrator	which is, of course, late; and the crucifix is still round my neck. Whether it is the old lady's fear,
	narrator	or the many ghostly traditions of this place, or the crucifix itself, I do not know,
	narrator	but I am not feeling nearly as easy in my mind as usual. If this book should ever reach Mina before I do,
	narrator	let it bring my good-bye. Here comes the coach! 5 May. The Castle.--The grey of the morning has passed,
	narrator	and the sun is high over the distant horizon, which seems jagged, whether with trees or hills I know not,
	narrator	for it is so far off that big things and little are mixed. I am not sleepy,
	narrator	and, as I am not to be called till I awake, naturally I write till sleep comes.
	narrator	There are many odd things to put down, and, lest who reads them may fancy that I dined too well before I left Bistritz,
	narrator	let me put down my dinner exactly. I dined on what they called "robber steak"--bits of bacon,
	narrator	onion, and beef, seasoned with red pepper, and strung on sticks and roasted over the fire,
	narrator	in the simple style of the London cat's meat! The wine was Golden Mediasch, which produces a queer sting on the tongue,
	narrator	which is, however, not disagreeable. I had only a couple of glasses of this, and nothing else.
	narrator	When I got on the coach the driver had not taken his seat, and I saw him talking with the landlady.
	narrator	They were evidently talking of me, for every now and then they looked at me, and some of the people who were sitting on the bench outside the door--which they call by a name meaning "word-bearer"--came and listened,
	narrator	and then looked at me, most of them pityingly. I could hear a lot of words often repeated,
	narrator	queer words, for there were many nationalities in the crowd; so I quietly got my polyglot dictionary from my bag and looked them out.
	narrator	I must say they were not cheering to me, for amongst them were "Ordog"--Satan, "pokol"--hell, "stregoica"--witch,
	narrator	"vrolok" and "vlkoslak"--both of which mean the same thing, one being Slovak and the other Servian for something that is either were-wolf or vampire.
	narrator	(Mem., I must ask the Count about these superstitions) When we started, the crowd round the inn door,
	narrator	which had by this time swollen to a considerable size, all made the sign of the cross and pointed two fingers towards me.
	narrator	With some difficulty I got a fellow-passenger to tell me what they meant; he would not answer at first,
	narrator	but on learning that I was English, he explained that it was a charm or guard against the evil eye.
	narrator	This was not very pleasant for me, just starting for an unknown place to meet an unknown man; but every one seemed so kind-hearted,
	narrator	and so sorrowful, and so sympathetic that I could not but be touched. I shall never forget the last glimpse which I had of the inn-yard and its crowd of picturesque figures,
	narrator	all crossing themselves, as they stood round the wide archway, with its background of rich foliage of oleander and orange trees in green tubs clustered in the centre of the yard.
	narrator	Then our driver, whose wide linen drawers covered the whole front of the box-seat--"gotza" they call them--cracked his big whip over his four small horses,
	narrator	which ran abreast, and we set off on our journey. I soon lost sight and recollection of ghostly fears in the beauty of the scene as we drove along,
	narrator	although had I known the language, or rather languages, which my fellow-passengers were speaking, I might not have been able to throw them off so easily.
	narrator	Before us lay a green sloping land full of forests and woods, with here and there steep hills,
	narrator	crowned with clumps of trees or with farmhouses, the blank gable end to the road. There was everywhere a bewildering mass of fruit blossom--apple,
	narrator	plum, pear, cherry; and as we drove by I could see the green grass under the trees spangled with the fallen petals.
	narrator	In and out amongst these green hills of what they call here the "Mittel Land" ran the road,
	narrator	losing itself as it swept round the grassy curve, or was shut out by the straggling ends of pine woods,
	narrator	which here and there ran down the hillsides like tongues of flame. The road was rugged,
	narrator	but still we seemed to fly over it with a feverish haste. I could not understand then what the haste meant,
	narrator	but the driver was evidently bent on losing no time in reaching Borgo Prund. I was told that this road is in summertime excellent,
	narrator	but that it had not yet been put in order after the winter snows. In this respect it is different from the general run of roads in the Carpathians,
	narrator	for it is an old tradition that they are not to be kept in too good order.
	narrator	Of old the Hospadars would not repair them, lest the Turk should think that they were preparing to bring in foreign troops,
	narrator	and so hasten the war which was always really at loading point. Beyond the green swelling hills of the Mittel Land rose mighty slopes of forest up to the lofty steeps of the Carpathians themselves.
	narrator	Right and left of us they towered, with the afternoon sun falling full upon them and bringing out all the glorious colours of this beautiful range,
	narrator	deep blue and purple in the shadows of the peaks, green and brown where grass and rock mingled,
	narrator	and an endless perspective of jagged rock and pointed crags, till these were themselves lost in the distance,
	narrator	where the snowy peaks rose grandly. Here and there seemed mighty rifts in the mountains, through which,
	narrator	as the sun began to sink, we saw now and again the white gleam of falling water.
	narrator	One of my companions touched my arm as we swept round the base of a hill and opened up the lofty,
	narrator	snow-covered peak of a mountain, which seemed, as we wound on our serpentine way, to be right before us:
	the passenger	Look! Isten szek!
	narrator	"God's seat!"--and he crossed himself reverently. As we wound on our endless way, and the sun sank lower and lower behind us,
	narrator	the shadows of the evening began to creep round us. This was emphasised by the fact that the snowy mountain-top still held the sunset,
	narrator	and seemed to glow out with a delicate cool pink. Here and there we passed Cszeks and Slovaks,
	narrator	all in picturesque attire, but I noticed that goitre was painfully prevalent. By the roadside were many crosses,
	narrator	and as we swept by, my companions all crossed themselves. Here and there was a peasant man or woman kneeling before a shrine,
	narrator	who did not even turn round as we approached, but seemed in the self-surrender of devotion to have neither eyes nor ears for the outer world.
	narrator	There were many things new to me: for instance, hay-ricks in the trees, and here and there very beautiful masses of weeping birch,
	narrator	their white stems shining like silver through the delicate green of the leaves. Now and again we passed a leiter-wagon--the ordinary peasant's cart--with its long,
	narrator	snake-like vertebra, calculated to suit the inequalities of the road. On this were sure to be seated quite a group of home-coming peasants,
	narrator	the Cszeks with their white, and the Slovaks with their coloured, sheepskins, the latter carrying lance-fashion their long staves,
	narrator	with axe at end. As the evening fell it began to get very cold, and the growing twilight seemed to merge into one dark mistiness the gloom of the trees,
	narrator	oak, beech, and pine, though in the valleys which ran deep between the spurs of the hills,
	narrator	as we ascended through the Pass, the dark firs stood out here and there against the background of late-lying snow.
	narrator	Sometimes, as the road was cut through the pine woods that seemed in the darkness to be closing down upon us,
	narrator	great masses of greyness, which here and there bestrewed the trees, produced a peculiarly weird and solemn effect,
	narrator	which carried on the thoughts and grim fancies engendered earlier in the evening, when the falling sunset threw into strange relief the ghost-like clouds which amongst the Carpathians seem to wind ceaselessly through the valleys.
	narrator	Sometimes the hills were so steep that, despite our driver's haste, the horses could only go slowly.
	jonathan harker	I wished to get down and walk up them, as we do at home, but the driver would not hear of it.
	the driver	No, no, you must not walk here; the dogs are too fierce and you may have enough of such matters before you go to sleep.
	narrator	The only stop he would make was a moment's pause to light his lamps. When it grew dark there seemed to be some excitement amongst the passengers,
	narrator	and they kept speaking to him, one after the other, as though urging him to further speed.
	narrator	He lashed the horses unmercifully with his long whip, and with wild cries of encouragement urged them on to further exertions.
	narrator	Then through the darkness I could see a sort of patch of grey light ahead of us,
	narrator	as though there were a cleft in the hills. The excitement of the passengers grew greater; the crazy coach rocked on its great leather springs,
	narrator	and swayed like a boat tossed on a stormy sea.
	jonathan harker	I had to hold on.
	narrator	The road grew more level, and we appeared to fly along. Then the mountains seemed to come nearer to us on each side and to frown down upon us; we were entering on the Borgo Pass.
	narrator	One by one several of the passengers offered me gifts, which they pressed upon me with an earnestness which would take no denial; these were certainly of an odd and varied kind,
	narrator	but each was given in simple good faith, with a kindly word, and a blessing, and that strange mixture of fear-meaning movements which I had seen outside the hotel at Bistritz--the sign of the cross and the guard against the evil eye.
	narrator	Then, as we flew along, the driver leaned forward, and on each side the passengers, craning over the edge of the coach,
	narrator	peered eagerly into the darkness. It was evident that something very exciting was either happening or expected,
	narrator	but though I asked each passenger, no one would give me the slightest explanation. This state of excitement kept on for some little time; and at last we saw before us the Pass opening out on the eastern side.
	narrator	There were dark, rolling clouds overhead, and in the air the heavy, oppressive sense of thunder.
	narrator	It seemed as though the mountain range had separated two atmospheres, and that now we had got into the thunderous one.
	narrator	I was now myself looking out for the conveyance which was to take me to the Count.
	narrator	Each moment I expected to see the glare of lamps through the blackness; but all was dark.
	narrator	The only light was the flickering rays of our own lamps, in which the steam from our hard-driven horses rose in a white cloud.
	narrator	We could see now the sandy road lying white before us, but there was on it no sign of a vehicle.
	narrator	The passengers drew back with a sigh of gladness, which seemed to mock my own disappointment.
	jonathan harker	I was already thinking what I had best do, when the driver, looking at his watch,
	jonathan harker	said to the others something which I could hardly hear, it was spoken so quietly and in so low a tone; I thought it was "An hour less than the time.
	the driver	Then turning to me, he said in German worse than my own:
	narrator	There is no carriage here. The Herr is not expected after all. He will now come on to Bukovina,
	narrator	and return to-morrow or the next day; better the next day. Whilst he was speaking the horses began to neigh and snort and plunge wildly,
	narrator	so that the driver had to hold them up. Then, amongst a chorus of screams from the peasants and a universal crossing of themselves,
	narrator	a calèche, with four horses, drove up behind us, overtook us, and drew up beside the coach.
	narrator	I could see from the flash of our lamps, as the rays fell on them, that the horses were coal-black and splendid animals.
	narrator	They were driven by a tall man, with a long brown beard and a great black hat,
	narrator	which seemed to hide his face from us. I could only see the gleam of a pair of very bright eyes,
	narrator	which seemed red in the lamplight, as he turned to us.
	the strange driver	You are early to-night, my friend. The English Herr was in a hurry, That is why,
	the strange driver	I suppose, you wished him to go on to Bukovina. You cannot deceive me, my friend; I know too much,
	the strange driver	and my horses are swift. That is why, I suppose, you wished him to go on to Bukovina.
	the strange driver	You cannot deceive me, my friend; I know too much, and my horses are swift.
	narrator	As he spoke he smiled, and the lamplight fell on a hard-looking mouth, with very red lips and sharp-looking teeth,
	narrator	as white as ivory. One of my companions whispered to another the line from Burger's "Lenore":-- "Denn die Todten reiten schnell"-- ("For the dead travel fast.")
	the strange driver	Denn die Todten reiten schnell--
	narrator	The strange driver evidently heard the words, for he looked up with a gleaming smile. The passenger turned his face away,
	narrator	at the same time putting out his two fingers and crossing himself.
	the strange driver	Give me the Herr's luggage,
	narrator	and with exceeding alacrity my bags were handed out and put in the calèche. Then I descended from the side of the coach,
	narrator	as the calèche was close alongside, the driver helping me with a hand which caught my arm in a grip of steel; his strength must have been prodigious.
	narrator	Without a word he shook his reins, the horses turned, and we swept into the darkness of the Pass.
	narrator	As I looked back I saw the steam from the horses of the coach by the light of the lamps,
	narrator	and projected against it the figures of my late companions crossing themselves. Then the driver cracked his whip and called to his horses,
	narrator	and off they swept on their way to Bukovina. As they sank into the darkness I felt a strange chill,
	narrator	and a lonely feeling came over me; but a cloak was thrown over my shoulders, and a rug across my knees,
	narrator	and the driver said in excellent German:
	the strange driver	The night is chill, mein Herr, and my master the Count bade me take all care of you.
	the strange driver	There is a flask of slivovitz (the plum brandy of the country) underneath the seat, if you should require it.
	narrator	I did not take any, but it was a comfort to know it was there all the same.
	narrator	I felt a little strangely, and not a little frightened. I think had there been any alternative I should have taken it,
	narrator	instead of prosecuting that unknown night journey. The carriage went at a hard pace straight along,
	narrator	then we made a complete turn and went along another straight road. It seemed to me that we were simply going over and over the same ground again; and so I took note of some salient point,
	narrator	and found that this was so. I would have liked to have asked the driver what this all meant,
	narrator	but I really feared to do so, for I thought that, placed as I was, any protest would have had no effect in case there had been an intention to delay.
	narrator	By-and-by, however, as I was curious to know how time was passing, I struck a match,
	narrator	and by its flame looked at my watch; it was within a few minutes of midnight.
	narrator	This gave me a sort of shock, for I suppose the general superstition about midnight was increased by my recent experiences.
	narrator	I waited with a sick feeling of suspense. Then a dog began to howl somewhere in a farmhouse far down the road--a long,
	narrator	agonised wailing, as if from fear. The sound was taken up by another dog, and then another and another,
	narrator	till, borne on the wind which now sighed softly through the Pass, a wild howling began,
	narrator	which seemed to come from all over the country, as far as the imagination could grasp it through the gloom of the night.
	narrator	At the first howl the horses began to strain and rear, but the driver spoke to them soothingly,
	narrator	and they quieted down, but shivered and sweated as though after a runaway from sudden fright.
	narrator	Then, far off in the distance, from the mountains on each side of us began a louder and a sharper howling--that of wolves--which affected both the horses and myself in the same way--for I was minded to jump from the calèche and run,
	narrator	whilst they reared again and plunged madly, so that the driver had to use all his great strength to keep them from bolting.
	narrator	In a few minutes, however, my own ears got accustomed to the sound, and the horses so far became quiet that the driver was able to descend and to stand before them.
	narrator	He petted and soothed them, and whispered something in their ears, as I have heard of horse-tamers doing,
	narrator	and with extraordinary effect, for under his caresses they became quite manageable again, though they still trembled.
	narrator	The driver again took his seat, and shaking his reins, started off at a great pace.
	narrator	This time, after going to the far side of the Pass, he suddenly turned down a narrow roadway which ran sharply to the right.
	narrator	Soon we were hemmed in with trees, which in places arched right over the roadway till we passed as through a tunnel; and again great frowning rocks guarded us boldly on either side.
	narrator	Though we were in shelter, we could hear the rising wind, for it moaned and whistled through the rocks,
	narrator	and the branches of the trees crashed together as we swept along. It grew colder and colder still,
	narrator	and fine, powdery snow began to fall, so that soon we and all around us were covered with a white blanket.
	narrator	The keen wind still carried the howling of the dogs, though this grew fainter as we went on our way.
	narrator	The baying of the wolves sounded nearer and nearer, as though they were closing round on us from every side.
	narrator	I grew dreadfully afraid, and the horses shared my fear. The driver, however, was not in the least disturbed; he kept turning his head to left and right,
	narrator	but I could not see anything through the darkness. Suddenly, away on our left, I saw a faint flickering blue flame.
	narrator	The driver saw it at the same moment; he at once checked the horses, and, jumping to the ground,
	narrator	disappeared into the darkness. I did not know what to do, the less as the howling of the wolves grew closer; but while I wondered the driver suddenly appeared again,
	narrator	and without a word took his seat, and we resumed our journey. I think I must have fallen asleep and kept dreaming of the incident,
	narrator	for it seemed to be repeated endlessly, and now looking back, it is like a sort of awful nightmare.
	narrator	Once the flame appeared so near the road, that even in the darkness around us I could watch the driver's motions.
	narrator	He went rapidly to where the blue flame arose--it must have been very faint, for it did not seem to illumine the place around it at all--and gathering a few stones,
	narrator	formed them into some device. Once there appeared a strange optical effect: when he stood between me and the flame he did not obstruct it,
	narrator	for I could see its ghostly flicker all the same. This startled me, but as the effect was only momentary,
	narrator	I took it that my eyes deceived me straining through the darkness. Then for a time there were no blue flames,
	narrator	and we sped onwards through the gloom, with the howling of the wolves around us, as though they were following in a moving circle.
	narrator	At last there came a time when the driver went further afield than he had yet gone,
	narrator	and during his absence, the horses began to tremble worse than ever and to snort and scream with fright.
	narrator	I could not see any cause for it, for the howling of the wolves had ceased altogether; but just then the moon,
	narrator	sailing through the black clouds, appeared behind the jagged crest of a beetling, pine-clad rock, and by its light I saw around us a ring of wolves,
	narrator	with white teeth and lolling red tongues, with long, sinewy limbs and shaggy hair. They were a hundred times more terrible in the grim silence which held them than even when they howled.
	narrator	For myself, I felt a sort of paralysis of fear. It is only when a man feels himself face to face with such horrors that he can understand their true import.
	narrator	All at once the wolves began to howl as though the moonlight had had some peculiar effect on them.
	narrator	The horses jumped about and reared, and looked helplessly round with eyes that rolled in a way painful to see; but the living ring of terror encompassed them on every side; and they had perforce to remain within it.
	narrator	I called to the coachman to come, for it seemed to me that our only chance was to try to break out through the ring and to aid his approach.
	narrator	I shouted and beat the side of the calèche, hoping by the noise to scare the wolves from that side,
	narrator	so as to give him a chance of reaching the trap. How he came there, I know not,
	narrator	but I heard his voice raised in a tone of imperious command, and looking towards the sound,
	narrator	saw him stand in the roadway. As he swept his long arms, as though brushing aside some impalpable obstacle,
	narrator	the wolves fell back and back further still. Just then a heavy cloud passed across the face of the moon,
	narrator	so that we were again in darkness. When I could see again the driver was climbing into the calèche,
	narrator	and the wolves had disappeared. This was all so strange and uncanny that a dreadful fear came upon me,
	narrator	and I was afraid to speak or move. The time seemed interminable as we swept on our way,
	narrator	now in almost complete darkness, for the rolling clouds obscured the moon. We kept on ascending,
	narrator	with occasional periods of quick descent, but in the main always ascending. Suddenly, I became conscious of the fact that the driver was in the act of pulling up the horses in the courtyard of a vast ruined castle,
	narrator	from whose tall black windows came no ray of light, and whose broken battlements showed a jagged line against the moonlit sky.
