	narrator	Now Arthur the prince had all this time been nourished in Sir Ector's house as his own son
	narrator	and was fair and tall and comely, being of the age of fifteen years, great in strength
	narrator	gentle in manner, and accomplished in all exercises proper for the training of a knight.
	narrator	But as yet he knew not of his father; for Merlin had so dealt, that none save Uther and himself knew aught about him.
	narrator	Wherefore it befell that many of the knights and barons who heard King Uther speak before his death
	narrator	and call his son Arthur his successor, were in great amazement; and some doubted, and others were displeased.
	narrator	Anon the chief lords and princes set forth each to his own land, and, raising armed men and multitudes of followers
	narrator	determined every one to gain the crown for himself; for they said in their hearts, "If there be any such a son at all as
	narrator	he of whom this wizard forced the king to speak
	narrator	who are we that a beardless boy should have rule over us?"
	narrator	So the land stood long in great peril, for every lord and baron sought but his own advantage; and the Saxons
	narrator	growing ever more adventurous, wasted and overran the towns and villages in every part.
	narrator	Then Merlin went to Brice, the Archbishop of Canterbury, and advised him to require all the earls and barons of the realm and all knights
	narrator	and gentlemen-at-arms to come to him at London
	narrator	before Christmas, under pain of cursing, that they might learn the will of Heaven who should be king.
	narrator	This, therefore, the archbishop did, and upon Christmas Eve were met together in London all the greatest princes
	narrator	lords, and barons; and long before day they prayed in St.
	narrator	Paul's Church, and the archbishop besought Heaven for a sign who should be lawful king of all the realm.
	narrator	And as they prayed, there was seen in the churchyard, set straight before the doorways of the church
	narrator	a huge square stone having a naked sword stuck in the midst of it.
	narrator	And on the sword was written in letters of gold, "Whoso pulleth out the sword from this stone is born the rightful King of England."
	narrator	At this all the people wondered greatly; and, when Mass was over, the nobles, knights, and princes ran out eagerly from the church to see
	narrator	the stone and sword; and a law was forthwith made that whoso should pull out the sword should be acknowledged straightway King of Britain.
	narrator	Then many knights and barons pulled at the sword with all their might, and some of them tried many times
	narrator	but none could stir or move it.
	narrator	When all had tried in vain, the archbishop declared the man whom Heaven had chosen was not yet there.
	brice	But God,
	narrator	said he, "will doubtless make him known ere many days."
	narrator	So ten knights were chosen, being men of high renown, to watch and keep the sword; and there was proclamation made through all the land
	narrator	that whosoever would
	narrator	had leave and liberty to try and pull it from the stone.
	narrator	But though great multitudes of people came, both gentle and simple, for many days, no man could ever move the sword a hair's breadth from
	narrator	its place.
	narrator	Now, at the New Year's Eve a great tournament was to be held in London, which the archbishop had devised to keep together lords and
	narrator	commons
	narrator	lest they should grow estranged in the troublous and unsettled times.
	narrator	To the which tournament there came, with many other knights, Sir Ector, Arthur's foster-father, who had great possessions near to London; and with him came
	narrator	his son
	narrator	Sir Key, but recently made knight, to take his part in the jousting, and young Arthur also to witness all the sports and fighting.
	narrator	But as they rode towards the jousts, Sir Key found suddenly he had no sword, for he had left it at his father's house; and
	narrator	turning to young Arthur
	narrator	he prayed him to ride back and fetch it for him.
	arthur	I will with a good will,
	narrator	said Arthur; and rode fast back after the sword.
	narrator	But when he came to the house he found it locked and empty, for all were gone forth to see the tournament.
	narrator	Whereat, being angry and impatient, he said within himself, "I will ride to the churchyard and take with me the sword that sticketh in the
	narrator	stone
	narrator	for my brother shall not go without a sword this day."
	narrator	So he rode and came to the churchyard, and alighting from his horse he tied him to the gate
	narrator	and went to the pavilion, which was pitched near the stone, wherein abode the ten knights who watched and kept it; but he found no
	narrator	knights there
	narrator	for all were gone to see the jousting.
	narrator	Then he took the sword by its handle, and lightly and fiercely he pulled it out of the stone
	narrator	and took his horse and rode until he came to Sir Key and delivered him the sword.
	narrator	But as soon as Sir Key saw it he knew well it was the sword of the stone
	narrator	and, riding swiftly to his father, he cried out, "Lo! here, sir, is the sword of the stone
	narrator	wherefore it is I who must be king of all this land."
	narrator	When Sir Ector saw the sword, he turned back straight with Arthur and Sir Key and came to the churchyard
	narrator	and there alighting, they went all three into the church, and Sir Key was sworn to tell truly how he came by the sword.
	narrator	Then he confessed it was his brother Arthur who had brought it to him.
	ector	Whereat Sir Ector, turning to young Arthur, asked him--"How gottest thou the sword?
	arthur	Sir,
	narrator	said he, "I will tell you. When I went home to fetch my brother's sword, I found nobody to deliver it to me
	narrator	for all were abroad to the jousts. Yet was I loth to leave my brother swordless, and
	narrator	bethinking me of this one, I came hither eagerly to fetch it for him, and pulled it out of the stone without any pain."
	ector	Then said Sir Ector, much amazed and looking steadfastly on Arthur, "If this indeed be thus, 'tis thou who shalt be king of all this
	ector	land--and God will have it so--for none but he who should be rightful Lord of Britain might ever draw this sword forth from that stone.
	ector	But let me now with mine own eyes see thee put back the sword into its place and draw it forth again.
	narrator	That is no mastery,
	arthur	That is no mastery,
	narrator	and straightway set it in the stone.
	narrator	And then Sir Ector pulled at it himself, and after him Sir Key, with all his might
	narrator	but both of them in vain: then Arthur, reaching forth his hand and grasping at the pommel
	narrator	pulled it out easily, and at once.
	narrator	Then fell Sir Ector down upon his knees upon the ground before young Arthur, and Sir Key also with him
	narrator	and straightway did him homage as their sovereign lord.
	arthur	Alas! mine own dear father and my brother, why kneel ye thus to me?
	ector	Nay, my Lord Arthur,
	ector	we are of no blood-kinship with thee, and little though I thought how high thy kin might be
	ector	yet wast thou never more than foster-child of mine.
	ector	And then he told him all he knew about his infancy, and how a stranger had delivered him
	ector	with a great sum of gold, into his hands to be brought up and nourished as his own born child
	ector	and then had disappeared.
	narrator	But when young Arthur heard of it, he fell upon Sir Ector's neck, and wept, and made great lamentation
	arthur	For now,
	arthur	I have in one day lost my father and my mother and my brother.
	ector	Sir,
	ector	when thou shalt be made king be good and gracious unto me and mine.
	arthur	If not,
	arthur	I were no true man's son at all, for thou art he in all the world to whom I owe the most; and my good
	arthur	lady and mother
	arthur	thy wife, hath ever kept and fostered me as though I were her own; so if it be God's will that I be king hereafter
	arthur	as thou sayest
	arthur	desire of me whatever thing thou wilt and I will do it; and God forbid that I should fail thee in it.
	ector	I will but pray,
	ector	that thou wilt make my son Sir Key, thy foster-brother, seneschal of all the lands.
	arthur	That shall he be,
	arthur	and never shall another hold that office, save thy son, while he and I do live.
	narrator	Anon, they left the church and went to the archbishop to tell him that the sword had been achieved.
	narrator	And when he saw the sword in Arthur's hand he set a day and summoned all the princes
	narrator	knights, and barons to meet again at St.
	narrator	Paul's Church and see the will of Heaven signified.
	narrator	So when they came together, the sword was put back in the stone, and all tried, from the greatest to the least
	narrator	to move it; but there before them all not one could take it out save Arthur only.
	narrator	But then befell a great confusion and dispute, for some cried out it was the will of Heaven
	narrator	and,
	narrator	Long live King Arthur,
	narrator	but many more were full of wrath and said,
	narrator	What! would ye give the ancient scepter of this land unto a boy born none know how?
	narrator	And the contention growing greatly, till nothing could be done to pacify their rage, the meeting was at length broken up by the archbishop and
	narrator	adjourned till Candlemas
	narrator	when all should meet again.
	narrator	But when Candlemas was come, Arthur alone again pulled forth the sword, though more than ever came to win it; and the barons
	narrator	sorely vexed and angry, put it in delay till Easter.
	narrator	But as he had sped before so he did at Easter, and the barons yet once more contrived delays till Pentecost.
	narrator	But now the archbishop, fully seeing God's will, called together, by Merlin's counsel, a band of knights and gentlemen-at-arms
	narrator	and set them about Arthur to keep him safely till the Feast of Pentecost.
	narrator	And when at the feast Arthur still again alone prevailed to move the sword, the people all with one accord cried out
	narrator	Long live King Arthur! we will have no more delay, nor any other king, for so it is God's will; and we will slay whoso
	narrator	resisteth Him and Arthur;
	narrator	and wherewithal they kneeled down all at once, and cried for Arthur's grace and pardon that they had so long delayed him from his crown.
	narrator	Then he full sweetly and majestically pardoned them; and taking in his hand the sword, he offered it upon the high altar of the church.
	narrator	Anon was he solemnly knighted with great pomp by the most famous knight there present, and the crown was placed upon his head; and
	narrator	having taken oath to all the people, lords and commons, to be true king and deal in justice only unto his life's end
	narrator	he received homage and service from all the barons who held lands and castles from the crown.
	narrator	Then he made Sir Key, High Steward of England, and Sir Badewaine of Britain, Constable, and Sir Ulfius
	narrator	Chamberlain:
	narrator	and after this, with all his court and a great retinue of knights and armed men, he journeyed into Wales
	narrator	and was crowned again in the old city of Caerleon-upon-Usk.
	narrator	Meanwhile those knights and barons who had so long delayed him from the crown, met together and went up to the coronation feast at Caerleon
	narrator	as if to do him homage; and there they ate and drank such things as were set before them at the royal banquet
	narrator	sitting with the others in the great hall.
	narrator	But when after the banquet Arthur began, according to the ancient royal custom, to bestow great boons and fiefs on whom he would
	narrator	they all with one accord rose up, and scornfully refused his gifts, crying that they would take nothing from a beardless boy come of low
	narrator	or unknown birth
	narrator	but would instead give him good gifts of hard sword-strokes between neck and shoulders.
	narrator	Whereat arose a deadly tumult in the hall, and every man there made him ready to fight.
	narrator	But Arthur leaped up as a flame of fire against them, and all his knights and barons drawing their swords
	narrator	rushed after him upon them and began a full sore battle; and presently the king's party prevailed
	narrator	and drave the rebels from the hall and from the city, closing the gates behind them; and King Arthur brake his sword upon them in
	narrator	his eagerness and rage.
	narrator	But amongst them were six kings of great renown and might, who more than all raged against Arthur and determined to destroy him
	narrator	namely, King Lot, King Nanters, King Urien, King Carados, King Yder, and King Anguisant.
	narrator	These six, therefore, joining their armies together, laid close siege to the city of Caerleon, wherefrom King Arthur had so shamefully driven them.
	narrator	And after fifteen days Merlin came suddenly into their camp and asked them what this treason meant.
	merlin	Then he declared to them that Arthur was no base adventurer, but King Uther's son, whom they were bound to serve and honor even though
	merlin	Heaven had not vouch-safed the wondrous miracle of the sword.
	narrator	Some of the kings, when they heard Merlin speak thus, marveled and believed him; but others, as King Lot
	narrator	laughed him and his words to scorn, and mocked him for a conjurer and wizard.
	narrator	But it was agreed with Merlin that Arthur should come forth and speak with the kings.
	narrator	So he went forth to them to the city gate, and with him the archbishop and Merlin
	narrator	and Sir Key, Sir Brastias, and a great company of others.
	narrator	And he spared them not in his speech, but spoke to them as king and chieftain, telling them plainly he would make them all bow
	narrator	to him if he lived
	narrator	unless they choose to do him homage there and then; and so they parted in great wrath
	narrator	and each side armed in haste.
	merlin	What will ye do? said Merlin to the kings; ye had best hold your hands, for were ye ten times as many ye should not
	merlin	prevail.
	king lot	Shall we be afraid of a dream-reader? quoth King Lot in scorn.
	narrator	With that Merlin vanished away and came to King Arthur.
	arthur	I have need now of a sword that shall chastise these rebels terribly.
	merlin	Come then with me, for hard by there is a sword that I can gain for thee.
	narrator	So they rode out that night till they came to a fair and broad lake, and in the midst of it King Arthur saw an
	narrator	arm thrust up
	narrator	clothed in white samite, and holding a great sword in the hand.
	merlin	Lo! yonder is the sword I spoke of.
	narrator	Then saw they a damsel floating on the lake in the moonlight.
	narrator	"What damsel is that?" said the king.
	merlin	The lady of the lake, said Merlin; for upon this lake there is a rock, and on the rock a noble palace
	merlin	where she abideth, and she will come towards thee presently, when thou shalt ask her courteously for the sword.
	narrator	Therewith the damsel came to King Arthur, and saluted him, and he saluted her, and said, "Lady
	narrator	what sword is that the arm holdeth above the water? I would that it were mine, for I have no sword."
	lady of the lake	Sir King, said the lady of the lake, that sword is mine, and if thou wilt give me in return a gift whenever I shall
	lady of the lake	ask it of thee
	lady of the lake	thou shalt have it.
	arthur	By my faith, said he, I will give thee any gift that thou shalt ask.
	lady of the lake	Well, said the damsel, go into yonder barge, and row thyself unto the sword, and take it and the scabbard with thee
	lady of the lake	and I will ask my gift of thee when I see my time.
	narrator	So King Arthur and Merlin alighted, and tied their horses to two trees, and went into the barge; and when they came to the sword
	narrator	that the hand held
	narrator	King Arthur took it by the handle and bore it with him, and the arm and hand went down under the water; and so they
	narrator	came back to land
	narrator	and rode again to Caerleon.
	narrator	On the morrow Merlin bade King Arthur to set fiercely on the enemy; and in the meanwhile three hundred good knights went over to King
	narrator	Arthur from the rebels' side.
	narrator	Then at the spring of day, when they had scarce left their tents, he fell on them with might and main
	narrator	and Sir Badewaine, Sir Key, and Sir Brastias slew on the right and on the left marvelously; and ever in the thickest of the fight
	narrator	King Arthur raged like a young lion
	narrator	and laid on with his sword, and did wondrous deeds of arms, to the joy and admiration of the knights and barons who beheld him.
	narrator	Then King Lot, King Carados, and the King of the Hundred Knights--who also was with them--going round to the rear
	narrator	set on King Arthur fiercely from behind; but King Arthur, turning to his knights, fought ever in the foremost press until his horse was slain
	narrator	beneath him.
	narrator	At that, King Lot rode furiously at him, and smote him down; but rising straightway, and being set again on horseback
	narrator	he drew his sword Excalibur that he had gained by Merlin from the lady of the lake
	narrator	which, shining brightly as the light of thirty torches, dazzled the eyes of his enemies.
	narrator	And therewith falling on them afresh with all his knights, he drove them back and slew them in great numbers
	narrator	and Merlin by his arts scattered among them fire and pitchy smoke, so that they broke and fled.
	narrator	Then all the common people of Caerleon, seeing them give way, rose up with one accord, and rushed at them with clubs and staves
	narrator	and chased them far and wide, and slew many great knights and lords, and the remainder of them fled and were seen no more.
	narrator	Thus won King Arthur his first battle and put his enemies to shame.
	narrator	But the six kings, though sorely routed, prepared for a new war, and joining to themselves five others swore together that
	narrator	whether for weal or woe, they would keep steadfast alliance till they had destroyed King Arthur.
	narrator	Then, with a host of 50,000 men-at-arms on horseback, and 10,000 foot, they were soon ready, and sent forth their fore-riders
	narrator	and drew from the northern country towards King Arthur, to the castle of Bedgraine.
	narrator	But he by Merlin's counsel had sent over sea to King Ban of Benwick and King Bors of Gaul
	narrator	praying them to come and help him in his wars, and promising to help them in return against King Claudas
	narrator	their foe.
	narrator	To which those kings made answer that they would joyfully fulfil his wish, and shortly after came to London with 300 knights
	narrator	well arrayed for both peace and war, leaving behind them a great army on the other side of the sea till they had consulted with
	narrator	King Arthur and his ministers how they might best dispose of it.
	narrator	And Merlin being asked for his advice and help, agreed to go himself and fetch it over sea to England
	narrator	which in one night he did; and brought with him 10,000 horsemen and led them northward privately to the forest of Bedgraine
	narrator	and there lodged them in a valley secretly.
	narrator	Then, by the counsel of Merlin, when they knew which way the eleven kings would ride and sleep
	narrator	King Arthur with Kings Ban and Bors made themselves ready with their army for the fight, having yet but 30,000 men
	narrator	counting the 10,000 who had come from Gaul.
	merlin	Now shall ye do my advice
	merlin	I would that King Ban and King Bors, with all their fellowship of 10,000 men, were led to ambush in this wood ere daylight
	merlin	and stir not therefrom until the battle hath been long waged. And thou, Lord Arthur, at the spring of day draw forth thine army before
	merlin	the enemy
	merlin	and dress the battle so that they may at once see all thy host, for they will be the more rash and hardy when they
	merlin	see you have but 20,000 men.
	narrator	To this the three knights and the barons heartily consented, and it was done as Merlin had devised.
	narrator	So on the morrow when the hosts beheld each other, the host of the north was greatly cheered to find so few led out against
	narrator	them.
	narrator	Then gave King Arthur the command to Sir Ulfius and Sir Brastias to take 3000 men-at-arms, and to open battle.
	narrator	They therefore setting fiercely on the enemy slew them on the right hand and the left till it was wonderful to see their slaughter.
	narrator	When the eleven kings beheld so small a band doing such mighty deeds of arms they were ashamed
	narrator	and charged them fiercely in return.
	narrator	Then was Sir Ulfius' horse slain under him; but he fought well and marvelously on foot against Duke Eustace and King Clarience
	narrator	who set upon him grievously, till Sir Brastias, seeing his great peril, pricked towards them swiftly, and so smote the duke through with his spear
	narrator	that horse and man fell down and rolled over.
	narrator	Whereat King Clarience turned upon Sir Brastias, and rushing furiously together they each unhorsed the other and fell both to the ground
	narrator	and there lay a long time stunned, their horses' knees being cut to the bone.
	narrator	Then came Sir Key the seneschal with six companions, and did wondrous well, till the eleven kings went out against them and overthrew Sir Griflet
	narrator	and Sir Lucas the butler.
	narrator	And when Sir Key saw Sir Griflet unhorsed and on foot, he rode against King Nanters hotly and smote him down
	narrator	and led his horse to Griflet and horsed him again; with the same spear did Sir Key smite down King Lot and wounded him full
	narrator	sore.
	narrator	But seeing that, the King of the Hundred Knights rushed at Sir Key and overthrew him in return
	narrator	and took his horse and gave it to King Lot.
	narrator	And when Sir Griflet saw Sir Key's mischance, he set his spear in rest, and riding at a mighty man-at-arms
	narrator	he cast him down headlong and caught his horse and led it straightway to Sir Key.
	narrator	By now the battle was growing perilous and hard, and both sides fought with rage and fury.
	narrator	And Sir Ulfius and Sir Brastias were both afoot and in great danger of their death, and foully stained and trampled under horses' feet.
	narrator	Then King Arthur, putting spurs to his horse, rushed forward like a lion into the midst of all the _melee_
	narrator	and singling out King Cradlemont of North Wales, smote him through the left side and overthrew him
	narrator	and taking his horse by the rein he brought it to Sir Ulfius in haste and said
	narrator	"Take this horse, mine old friend, for thou hast great need of one, and charge by side of me." And even as he spoke he
	narrator	saw Sir Ector
	narrator	Sir Key's father, smitten to the earth by the King of the Hundred Knights, and his horse taken to King Cradlemont.
	narrator	But when King Arthur saw him ride upon Sir Ector's horse his wrath was very great, and with his sword he smote King Cradlemont upon
	narrator	the helm
	narrator	and shore off the fourth part thereof and of the shield, and drave the sword onward to the horse's neck and slew the horse
	narrator	and hurled the king upon the ground.
	narrator	And now the battle waxed so great and furious that all the noise and sound thereof rang out by water and by wood
	narrator	so that Kings Ban and Bors, with all their knights and men-at-arms in ambush, hearing the tumult and the cries
	narrator	trembled and shook for eagerness, and scarce could stay in secret, but made them ready for the fray and dressed their shields and harness.
	narrator	But when King Arthur saw the fury of the enemy, he raged like a mad lion, and stirred and drove his horse now here
	narrator	now there, to the right hand and to the left and stayed not in his wrath till he had slain full twenty knights.
	narrator	He wounded also King Lot so sorely in the shoulder that he left the field, and in great pain and dolor cried out to the
	narrator	other kings
	narrator	"Do ye as I devise, or we shall be destroyed. I, with the King of the Hundred Knights
	narrator	King Anguisant, King Yder, and the Duke of Cambinet, will take fifteen thousand men and make a circuit
	narrator	meanwhile that ye do hold the battle with twelve thousand. Then coming suddenly we will fall fiercely on them from behind and put them to
	narrator	the rout
	narrator	but else shall we never stand against them."
	narrator	So Lot and four kings departed with their party to one side, and the six other kings dressed their ranks against King Arthur and fought
	narrator	long and stoutly.
	narrator	But now Kings Ban and Bors, with all their army fresh and eager, broke from their ambush and met face to face the five kings
	narrator	and their host as they came round behind
	narrator	and then began a frantic struggle with breaking of spears and clashing of swords and slaying of men and horses.
	narrator	Anon King Lot, espying in the midst King Bors, cried out in great dismay, "Our Lady now defend us from our death and fearful wounds;
	narrator	our peril groweth great
	narrator	for yonder cometh one of the worshipfullest kings and best knights in all the world."
	king of the hundred knights	Who is he?
	king lot	It is King Bors of Gaul, and much I marvel how he may have come with all his host into this land without our knowledge.
	king carados	Aha! I will encounter with this king if ye will rescue me when there is need.
	narrator	"Ride on," said they.
	narrator	So King Carados and all his host rode softly till they came within a bow-shot of King Bors
	narrator	and then both hosts, spurring their horses to their greatest swiftness, rushed at each other.
	narrator	And King Bors encountered in the onset with a knight, and struck him through with a spear
	narrator	so that he fell dead upon the earth; then drawing his sword, he did such mighty feats of arms that all who saw him gazed
	narrator	with wonder.
	narrator	Anon King Ban came also forth upon the field with all his knights, and added yet more fury
	narrator	sound, and slaughter, till at length both hosts of the eleven kings began to quake, and drawing all together into one body
	narrator	they prepared to meet the worst, while a great multitude already fled.
	king lot	Lords, we must take yet other means, or worse loss still awaits us. See ye not what people we have lost in waiting on the
	king lot	footmen
	king lot	and that it costs ten horsemen to save one of them? Therefore it is my counsel to put away our footmen from us
	king lot	for it is almost night, and King Arthur will not stay to slaughter them. So they can save their lives in this great wood hard
	king lot	by. Then let us gather into one band all the horsemen that remain
	king lot	and whoso breaketh rank or leaveth us, let him be straightway slain by him that seeth him
	king lot	for it is better that we slay a coward than through a coward be all slain. How say ye?
	narrator	said King Lot; "answer me, all ye kings."
	narrator	"It is well said," replied they all.
	narrator	And swearing they would never fail each other, they mended and set right their armor and their shields
	narrator	and took new spears and set them steadfastly against their thighs, waiting, and so stood still as a clump of trees stands on the plain;
	narrator	and no assaults could shake them
	narrator	they held so hard together; which when King Arthur saw he marveled greatly, and was very wroth.
	king arthur	Yet, I may not blame them, by my faith, for they do as brave men ought to do
	king arthur	and are the best fighting men and knights of most prowess that I ever saw or heard tell of.
	narrator	And so said also Kings Ban and Bors, and praised them greatly for their noble chivalry.
	narrator	But now came forty noble knights out of King Arthur's host, and prayed that he would suffer them to break the enemy.
	narrator	And when they were allowed, they rode forth with their spears upon their thighs, and spurred their horses to their hottest.
	narrator	Then the eleven kings, with a party of their knights, rushed with set spears as fast and mightily to meet them; and when they were
	narrator	encountered
	narrator	all the crash and splinter of their spears and armor rang with a mighty din, and so fierce and bloody was their onset that in
	narrator	all that day there had been no such cruel press
	narrator	and rage, and smiting.
	narrator	At that same moment rode fiercely into the thickest of the struggle King Arthur and Kings Ban and Bors
	narrator	and slew downright on both hands right and left, until their horses went in blood up to the fetlocks.
	narrator	And while the slaughter and the noise and shouting were at their greatest, suddenly there came down through the battle Merlin the Wizard
	narrator	upon a great black horse, and riding to King Arthur, he cried out,
	merlin	Alas, my Lord! will ye have never done? Of sixty thousand have ye left but fifteen thousand men alive. Is it not time to stay
	merlin	this slaying? for God is ill pleased with ye that ye have never ended
	merlin	and yonder kings shall not be altogether overthrown this time. But if ye fall upon them any more
	merlin	the fortune of this day will turn, and go to them. Withdraw, Lord, therefore, to thy lodging
	merlin	and there now take thy rest, for to-day thou hast won a great victory, and overcome the noblest chivalry of all the world. And now
	merlin	for many years those kings shall not disturb thee. Therefore
	merlin	I tell thee, fear them no more, for now they are sore beaten, and have nothing left them but their honor; and why shouldest thou
	merlin	slay them to take that?
	king arthur	Thou sayest well, and I will take thy counsel.
	narrator	With that he cried out, "Ho!" for the battle to cease, and sent forth heralds through the field to stay more fighting.
	narrator	And gathering all the spoil, he gave it not amongst his own host, but to Kings Ban and Bors and all their knights and men-at-arms
	narrator	that he might treat them with the greater courtesy as strangers.
	narrator	Then Merlin took his leave of Arthur and the two other kings, and went to see his master
	narrator	Blaise, a holy hermit, dwelling in Northumberland, who had nourished him through all his youth.
	narrator	And Blaise was passing glad to see him, for there was a great love ever between them; and Merlin told him how King Arthur had
	narrator	sped in the battle
	narrator	and how it had ended; and told him the names of every king and knight of worship who was there.
	narrator	So Blaise wrote down the battle, word for word, as Merlin told him; and in the same way ever after
	narrator	all the battles of King Arthur's days Merlin caused Blaise, his master, to record.
