	narrator	Anon, thereafter, came word to King Arthur that Ryence, King of North Wales, was making war upon King Leodegrance of Camelgard; whereat he was passing
	narrator	wroth
	narrator	for he loved Leodegrance well, and hated Ryence.
	narrator	So he departed with Kings Ban and Bors and twenty thousand men, and came to Camelgard, and rescued Leodegrance
	narrator	and slew ten thousand of Ryence's men and put him to flight.
	narrator	Then Leodegrance made a great festival to the three kings, and treated them with every manner of mirth and pleasure which could be devised.
	narrator	And there had King Arthur the first sight of Guinevere, daughter of Leodegrance, whom in the end he married
	narrator	as shall be told hereafter.
	narrator	Then did Kings Ban and Bors take leave, and went to their own country, where King Claudas worked great mischief.
	narrator	And King Arthur would have gone with them, but they refused him, saying,
	king ban	Nay, ye shall not at this time, for ye have yet much to do in these lands of your own; and we with the riches
	king ban	we have won here by your gifts shall hire many good knights
	king ban	and, by the grace of God, withstand the malice of King Claudas; and if we have need we will send to ye for succor; and
	king ban	likewise ye
	king ban	if ye have need, send for us, and we will not tarry, by the faith of our bodies.
	narrator	When the two kings had left, King Arthur rode to Caerleon, and thither came to him his half-sister Belisent
	narrator	wife to King Lot, sent as a messenger, but in truth to espy his power; and with her came a noble retinue
	narrator	and also her four sons--Gowain, Gaheris, Agravaine, and Gareth.
	narrator	But when she saw King Arthur and his nobleness, and all the splendor of his knights and service
	narrator	she forebore to spy upon him as a foe, and told him of her husband's plots against him and his throne.
	narrator	And the king, not knowing that she was his half-sister, made great court to her; and being full of admiration for her beauty
	narrator	loved her out of measure, and kept her a long season at Caerleon.
	narrator	Wherefore her husband, King Lot, was more than ever King Arthur's enemy, and hated him till death with a passing great hatred.
	narrator	At that time King Arthur had a marvelous dream, which gave him great disquietness of heart.
	narrator	He dreamed that the whole land was full of many fiery griffins and serpents, which burnt and slew the people everywhere; and then that he
	narrator	himself fought with them
	narrator	and that they did him mighty injuries, and wounded him nigh to death, but that at last he overcame and slew them all.
	narrator	When he woke, he sat in great heaviness of spirit and pensiveness, thinking what this dream might signify
	narrator	but by-and-by, when he could by no means satisfy himself what it might mean, to rid himself of all his thoughts of it
	narrator	he made ready with a great company to ride out hunting.
	narrator	As soon as he was in the forest, the king saw a great hart before him, and spurred his horse
	narrator	and rode long eagerly after it, and chased until his horse lost breath and fell down dead from under him.
	narrator	Then, seeing the hart escaped and his horse dead, he sat down by a fountain, and fell into deep thought again.
	narrator	And as he sat there alone, he thought he heard the noise of hounds, as it were some thirty couple in number
	narrator	and looking up he saw coming towards him the strangest beast that ever he had seen or heard tell of
	narrator	which ran towards the fountain and drank of the water.
	narrator	Its head was like a serpent's, with a leopard's body and a lion's tail, and it was footed like a stag; and the noise was
	narrator	in its belly
	narrator	as it were the baying or questing of thirty couple of hounds.
	narrator	While it drank there was no noise within it; but presently, having finished, it departed with a greater sound than ever.
	narrator	The king was amazed at all this; but being greatly wearied, he fell asleep, and was before long waked up by a knight on foot
	narrator	who said,
	knight	Knight, full of thought and sleepy, tell me if thou sawest a strange beast pass this way?
	king arthur	Such a one I saw, but that is now two miles distant at the least. What would you with that beast?
	knight	Sir, I have followed it for a long time, and have killed my horse, and would to heaven I had another to pursue my quest
	knight	withal.
	narrator	At that moment came a yeoman with another horse for the king, which, when the knight saw
	narrator	he earnestly prayed to be given him.
	knight	For I have followed this quest, twelve months, and either I shall achieve him or bleed of the best blood of my body.
	narrator	It was King Pellinore who at that time followed the questing beast, but neither he nor King Arthur knew each other.
	king arthur	Sir Knight, leave that quest and suffer me to have it, and I will follow it other twelve months.
	knight	Ah, fool, thy desire is utterly in vain, for it shall never be achieved but by me, or by my next of kin.
	narrator	Therewith he started to the king's horse, and mounted to the saddle, crying out,
	knight	Gramercy, this horse is mine!
	king arthur	Well, thou mayest take my horse by force, and I will not say nay; but till we prove whether thou or I be best on
	king arthur	horseback
	king arthur	I shall not rest content.
	knight	Seek me here, whenever thou wilt, and here by this fountain thou shalt find me;
	narrator	and so he passed forth on his way.
	narrator	Then sat King Arthur in a deep fit of study, and bade his yeomen fetch him yet another horse as quickly as they could.
	narrator	And when they left him all alone came Merlin, disguised as a child of fourteen years of age
	narrator	and saluted the king, and asked him why he was so pensive and heavy.
	king arthur	I may well be pensive and heavy, for here even now I have seen the strangest sight I ever saw.
	merlin	That know I well, as well as thyself, and also all thy thoughts; but thou art foolish to take thought
	merlin	for it will not amend thee.
	merlin	Also I know what thou art, and know thy father and thy mother.
	king arthur	That is false, how shouldst thou know? thy years are not enough.
	merlin	Yea, but I know better than thou how thou wast born, and better than any man living.
	king arthur	I will not believe thee,
	narrator	said King Arthur, and was wroth with the child.
	narrator	So Merlin departed, and came again in the likeness of an old man of fourscore years of age; and the king was glad at his
	narrator	coming
	narrator	for he seemed wise and venerable.
	merlin	Why art thou so sad?
	king arthur	For divers reasons,
	king arthur	for I have seen strange things to-day, and but this moment there was here a child who told me things beyond his years to know.
	merlin	Yea,
	merlin	but he told thee truth, and more he would have told thee hadst thou suffered him.
	merlin	But I will tell thee wherefore thou art sad, for thou hast done a thing of late for which God is displeased with thee
	merlin	and what it is thou knowest in thy heart, though no man else may know.
	king arthur	What are thou,
	king arthur	said King Arthur, starting up all pale,
	king arthur	that tellest me these tidings?
	merlin	I am Merlin,
	merlin	and I was he in the child's likeness, also.
	king arthur	Ah,
	king arthur	thou art a marvelous and right fearful man, and I would ask and tell thee many things this day.
	narrator	As they talked came one with the king's horses, and so, King Arthur mounting one, and Merlin another
	narrator	they rode together to Caerleon; and Merlin prophesied to Arthur of his death, and also foretold his own end.
	narrator	And now King Arthur, having utterly dispersed and overwhelmed those kings who had so long delayed his coronation
	narrator	turned all his mind to overthrow the Saxon heathens who yet in many places spoiled the land.
	narrator	Calling together, therefore, his knights and men-at-arms, he rode with all his hosts to York, where Colgrin
	narrator	the Saxon, lay with a great army; and there he fought a mighty battle, long and bloody
	narrator	and drove him into the city, and besieged him.
	narrator	Then Baldulph, Colgrin's brother, came secretly with six thousand men to assail King Arthur and to raise the siege.
	narrator	But King Arthur was aware of him, and sent six hundred horsemen and three thousand foot to meet and fall on him instead.
	narrator	This therefore they did, encountering them at midnight, and utterly defeated them, till they fled away for life.
	narrator	But Baldulph, full of grief, resolved to share his brother's peril; wherefore he shaved his head and beard
	narrator	and disguised himself as a jester, and so passed through King Arthur's camp, singing and playing on a harp
	narrator	till by degrees he drew near to the city walls, where presently he made himself known, and was drawn up by ropes into the town.
	narrator	Anon, while Arthur closely watched the city, came news that full six hundred ships had landed countless swarms of Saxons
	narrator	under Cheldric, on the eastern coast.
	narrator	At that he raised the siege, and marched straight to London, and there increased his army, and took counsel with his barons how to drive
	narrator	the Saxons from the land for evermore.
	narrator	Then with his nephew, Hoel, King of the Armorican Britons, who came with a great force to help him
	narrator	King Arthur, with a mighty multitude of barons, knights, and fighting men, went swiftly up to Lincoln
	narrator	which the Saxons lay besieging.
	narrator	And there he fought a passing fierce battle, and made grievous slaughter, killing above six thousand men
	narrator	till the main body of them turned and fled.
	narrator	But he pursued them hotly into the wood of Celidon, where, sheltering themselves among the trees from his arrows
	narrator	they made a stand, and for a long season bravely defended themselves.
	narrator	Anon, he ordered all the trees in that part of the forest to be cut down, leaving no shelter or ambush; and with their trunks
	narrator	and branches made a mighty barricade
	narrator	which shut them in and hindered their escape.
	narrator	After three days, brought nigh to death by famine, they offered to give up their wealth of gold and silver spoils
	narrator	and to depart forthwith in their empty ships; moreover, to pay tribute to King Arthur when they reached their home
	narrator	and to leave him hostages till all was paid.
	narrator	This offer, therefore, he accepted, and suffered them to depart.
	narrator	But when they had been a few hours at sea, they repented of their shameful flight, and turned their ships back again
	narrator	and landing at Totnes, ravaged all the land as far as the Severn, and, burning and slaying on all sides
	narrator	bent their steps towards Bath.
	narrator	When King Arthur heard of their treachery and their return, he burned with anger till his eyes shone like two torches
	narrator	and then he swore a mighty oath to rest no more until he had utterly destroyed those enemies of God and man
	narrator	and had rooted them forever out of the land of Britain.
	narrator	Then marching hotly with his armies on to Bath, he cried aloud to them,
	king arthur	Since these detestable and impious heathens disdain to keep their faith with me, I, to keep faith with God
	king arthur	to whom I swear to cherish and defend this realm, will now this day avenge on them the blood of all that they have slain
	king arthur	in Britain!
	narrator	In like manner after him spoke the archbishop, standing upon a hill, and crying that to-day they should fight both for their country and for
	narrator	Paradise
	narrator	"For whoso," he said, "shall in this holy war be slain, the angels shall forthwith receive him; for death in this cause shall be penance
	narrator	and absolution for all sins."
	narrator	At these words every man in the whole army raged with hatred, and pressed eagerly to rush upon those savages.
	narrator	Anon King Arthur, dressed in armor shining with gold and jewels, and wearing on his head a helmet with a golden dragon
	narrator	took a shield painted with the likeness of the blessed Mary.
	narrator	Then girding on Excalibur and taking in his right hand his great lance Ron, he placed his men in order and led them out against
	narrator	the enemy
	narrator	who stood for battle on the slope of Badon Hill, ranged in the form of a wedge
	narrator	as their custom was.
	narrator	And they, resisting all the onslaughts of King Arthur and his host, made that day a stout defense
	narrator	and at night lay down upon the hill.
	narrator	But on the next day Arthur led his army once again to the attack, and with wounds and slaughter such as no man had ever
	narrator	seen before
	narrator	he drove the heathen step by step before him, backwards and upwards, till he stood with all his noblest knights upon the summit of the
	narrator	hill.
	narrator	And then men saw him, "red as the rising sun from spur to plume," lift up his sword
	narrator	and, kneeling, kiss the cross of it; and after, rising to his feet, set might and main with all his fellowship upon the foe
	narrator	till, as a troop of lions roaring for their prey, they drove them like a scattered herd along the plains
	narrator	and cut them down till they could cut no more for weariness.
	narrator	That day King Arthur by himself alone slew with his sword Excalibur four hundred and seventy heathens.
	narrator	Colgrin also, and his brother Baldulph, were slain.
	king arthur	Then the king bade Cador, Duke of Cornwall, follow Cheldric, the chief leader, and the remnant of his hosts, unto the uttermost.
	narrator	He, therefore, when he had first seized their fleet, and filled it with chosen men, to beat them back when they should fly to it
	narrator	at last
	narrator	chased them and slew them without mercy so long as he could overtake them.
	narrator	And though they crept with trembling hearts for shelter to the coverts of the woods and dens of mountains
	narrator	yet even so they found no safety, for Cador slew them, even one by one.
	narrator	Last of all he caught and slew Cheldric himself, and slaughtering a great multitude took hostages for the surrender of the rest.
	narrator	Meanwhile, King Arthur turned from Badon Hill, and freed his nephew Hoel from the Scots and Picts
	narrator	who besieged him in Alculd.
	narrator	And when he had defeated them in three sore battles, he drove them before him to a lake
	narrator	which was one of the most wondrous lakes in all the world, for it was fed by sixty rivers
	narrator	and had sixty islands, and sixty rocks, and on every island sixty eagles' nests.
	narrator	But King Arthur with a great fleet sailed round the rivers and besieged them in the lake for fifteen days
	narrator	so that many thousands died of hunger.
	narrator	Anon the King of Ireland came with an army to relieve them; but Arthur, turning on him fiercely
	narrator	routed him, and compelled him to retreat in terror to his land.
	narrator	Then he pursued his purpose, which was no less than to destroy the race of Picts and Scots
	narrator	who, beyond memory, had been a ceaseless torment to the Britons by their barbarous malice.
	narrator	So bitterly, therefore, did he treat them, giving quarter to none, that at length the bishops of that miserable country with the clergy met together
	narrator	and, bearing all the holy relics, came barefooted to the king to pray his mercy for their people.
	narrator	As soon as they were led before him they fell down upon their knees, and piteously besought him to spare the few survivors of their
	narrator	countrymen
	narrator	and grant them any corner of the land where they might live in peace.
	narrator	When he thus heard them, and knew that he had now fully punished them, he consented to their prayer
	narrator	and withdrew his hosts from any further slaughter.
	narrator	Then turned he back to his own realm, and came to York for Christmas,
	narrator	and there with high solemnity observed that holy tide; and being passing
	narrator	grieved to see the ruin of the churches and houses, which the rage of
	narrator	the pagans had destroyed, he rebuilt them, and restored the city to its
	narrator	ancient happy state.
	narrator	And on a certain day, as the king sat with his barons, there came into
	narrator	the court a squire on horseback, carrying a knight before him wounded to
	narrator	the death, and told the king that hard by in the forest was a knight who
	narrator	had reared up a pavilion by the fountain, "and hath slain my master, a
	narrator	valiant knight, whose name was Nirles; wherefore I beseech thee, Lord,
	narrator	my master may be buried, and that some good knight may avenge his
	narrator	death."
	narrator	At that stepped forth a squire named Griflet, who was very young, being
	narrator	of the same age with King Arthur, and besought the king, for all the
	narrator	service he had done, to give him knighthood.
	king arthur	Thou art full young and tender of age,
	king arthur	to take so high an order upon thee.
	griflet	Sir,
	griflet	I beseech thee make me a knight;
	narrator	and Merlin also advising the king to grant his request, "Well," said Arthur,
	king arthur	be it then so,
	narrator	and knighted him forthwith.
	narrator	Then said he to him,
	king arthur	Since I have granted thee this favor, thou must in turn grant me a gift.
	griflet	Whatsoever thou wilt, my lord,
	griflet	replied Sir Griflet.
	king arthur	Promise me,
	king arthur	by the faith of thy body, that when thou hast jousted with this knight at the fountain
	king arthur	thou wilt return to me straightway, unless he slay thee.
	griflet	I promise,
	narrator	said Sir Griflet; and taking his horse in haste, he dressed his shield,
	narrator	and took a spear in his hand and rode full gallop till he came to the fountain
	narrator	by the side of which he saw a rich pavilion, and a great horse standing well saddled and bridled
	narrator	and on a tree close by there hung a shield of many colors and a long lance.
	narrator	Then Sir Griflet smote upon the shield with the butt of his spear until he cast it to the ground.
	narrator	At that a knight came out of the pavilion and said,
	knight	Fair knight, why smote ye down my shield?
	griflet	Because,
	griflet	I would joust with thee.
	knight	It were better not,
	knight	replied the knight; "for thou art young and but lately made a knight, and thy strength is small compared to mine.
	griflet	For all that,
	griflet	said Sir Griflet, "I will joust with ye.
	knight	I am full loth,
	knight	replied the knight; "but if I must I must.
	narrator	Then did they wheel their horses far apart, and running them together,
	narrator	the strange knight shivered Sir Griflet's spear to fragments, and smote
	narrator	him through the shield and the left side, and broke his own spear into
	narrator	Sir Griflet's body, so that the truncheon stuck there, and Sir Griflet
	narrator	and his horse fell down.
	narrator	But when the strange knight saw him overthrown,
	narrator	he was sore grieved, and hastily alighted, for he thought that he had
	narrator	slain him.
	narrator	Then he unlaced his helm and gave him air, and tended him
	narrator	carefully till he come out of his swoon, and leaving the truncheon of
	narrator	his spear in his body, he set him upon horse, and commended him to God,
	narrator	and said he had a mighty heart, and if he lived would prove a passing
	narrator	good knight.
	narrator	And so Sir Griflet rode to the court, where, by aid of good
	narrator	physicians, he was healed in time and his life saved.
	narrator	At that same time there came before the king twelve old men, ambassadors from Lucius Tiberius, Emperor of Rome
	narrator	and demanded of Arthur tribute unto Caesar for his realm, or else, said they, the emperor would destroy both him and his land.
	king arthur	I owe the emperor no tribute, nor would send him any; but said he, "On a fair field I will pay him his proper tribute--with
	king arthur	a sharp spear and sword; and by my father's soul that tribute shall he take from me
	king arthur	whether he will or not.
	narrator	So the ambassadors departed passing wroth, and King Arthur was as wroth as they.
	narrator	But on the morrow of Sir Griflet's hurt, the king commanded to take his horse and armor secretly outside the city walls before sunrise of
	narrator	the next morning
	narrator	and, rising a long while before dawn, he mounted up and took his shield and spear, and bade his chamberlain tarry till he came again;
	narrator	but he forbore to take Excalibur
	narrator	for he had given it for safety into charge of his sister, Queen Morgan le Fay.
	narrator	And as the king rode at a soft pace he saw suddenly three villains chasing Merlin and making to attack and slay him.
	king arthur	Flee, churls, or take your deaths;
	king arthur	O Merlin, here hadst thou been killed, despite thy many crafts, had I not chanced to pass.
	merlin	Not so, for when I would, I could have saved myself; but thou art nearer to thy death than I
	merlin	for without special help from heaven thou ridest now towards thy grave.
	narrator	And as they were thus talking, they came to the fountain and the rich pavilion pitched beside it
	narrator	and saw a knight sitting all armed on a chair in the opening of the tent.
	king arthur	Sir knight, for what cause abidest thou here? to joust with any knight that passeth by? If so, I caution thee to quit that custom.
	knight	That custom, have I followed and will follow, let whosoever will say nay, and if any is aggrieved at it
	knight	let him who will amend it.
	king arthur	I will amend it.
	knight	And I will defend it.
	king arthur	Then the knight mounted his horse and made himself ready, and charging at each other they met so hard that both their lances splintered into
	king arthur	pieces. Then King Arthur drew his sword
	king arthur	but the knight cried out,
	knight	Not so; but let us run another tilt together with sharp spears.
	king arthur	I would with a good will, but I have no more spears.
	knight	I have enough of spears, replied the knight, and called a squire, who brought two good new lances.
	narrator	Then spurring their horses, they rushed together with all their might,
	narrator	and broke each one his own spear short off in his hand.
	narrator	Then the king again put his hand to his sword, but the knight once more cried out
	knight	Nay, yet abide awhile; ye are the best jouster that I ever met with;
	knight	for the love of knighthood, let us joust yet once again.
	narrator	So once again they tilted with their fullest force, and this time King Arthur's spear was shivered
	narrator	but the knight's held whole, and drove so furiously against the king that both his horse and he were hurled to the ground.
	narrator	At that, King Arthur was enraged and drew his sword and said,
	king arthur	I will attack thee now, Sir knight, on foot, for on horseback I have lost the honor.
	knight	I will be on horseback,
	narrator	said the knight.
	narrator	But when he saw him come on foot, he lighted from his horse, thinking it shame to have so great advantage.
	narrator	And then began they a strong battle, with many great strokes and grievous blows, and so hewed with their swords that the fragments of their
	narrator	armor flew about the fields
	narrator	and both so bled that all the ground around was like a marsh of blood.
	narrator	Thus they fought long and mightily, and anon, after brief rest fell to again, and so hurtled together like two wild boars that they both
	narrator	rolled to the ground.
	narrator	At last their swords clashed furiously together, and the knight's sword shivered the king's in two.
	narrator	Then said the knight,
	knight	Now art thou in my power, to save thee or to slay. Yield therefore as defeated, and a recreant knight, or thou shalt surely die.
	narrator	"As for death," replied King Arthur,
	king arthur	welcome be it when it cometh; but as for yielding me to thee as a recreant because of this poor accident upon my sword
	king arthur	I had far liefer die than be so shamed.
	narrator	So saying, he sprang on the knight, and took him by the middle and threw him down
	narrator	and tore off his helm.
	narrator	But the knight, being a huge man, wrestled and struggled in a frenzy with the king until he brought him under
	narrator	and tore off his helm in turn, and would have smitten off his head.
	narrator	At that came Merlin and said,
	merlin	Knight, hold thy hand, for if thou slayest yonder knight, thou puttest all this realm to greater loss and damage than ever realm was in;
	merlin	for he is a man of greater worship than thou dreamest of.
	narrator	"Who then is he?" cried the knight.
	narrator	Then would he have slain him for dread of his wrath, but Merlin cast a spell upon the knight
	narrator	so that he fell suddenly to the earth in a deep sleep.
	narrator	Then raising up the king, he took the knight's horse for himself and rode away.
	narrator	"Alas," said King Arthur,
	king arthur	what hast thou done, Merlin? hast thou slain this good knight by thy crafts? There never lived a better knight; I had rather lose my
	king arthur	kingdom for a year than have him dead.
	merlin	Be not afraid
	narrator	he is more whole and sound than thou art, and is but in a sleep, wherefrom in three hours' time he will awake.
	narrator	I told thee what a knight he was, and how near thou was to death.
	narrator	There liveth not a better knight than he in all the world, and hereafter he shall do thee good service.
	narrator	His name is King Pellinore, and he shall have two sons, who shall be passing valiant men
	narrator	and, save one another, shall have no equal in prowess and in purity of life.
	narrator	The one shall be named Percival, and the other Lamoracke of Wales.
	narrator	So they rode on to Caerleon, and all the knights grieved greatly when they heard of this adventure
	narrator	that the king would jeopardize his person thus alone.
	narrator	Yet could they not hide their joy at serving under such a noble chief, who adventured his own life as much as did the poorest
	narrator	knight among them all.
