	narrator	Then, at the following Pentecost, was held a feast of the Round Table at Caerleon, with high splendor; and all the knights thereof resorted to
	narrator	the court
	narrator	and held many games and jousts.
	narrator	And therein Sir Lancelot increased in fame and worship above all men, for he overthrew all comers
	narrator	and never was unhorsed or worsted, save by treason and enchantment.
	narrator	When Queen Guinevere had seen his wondrous feats, she held him in great favor, and smiled more on him than on any other knight.
	narrator	And ever since he first had gone to bring her to King Arthur, had Lancelot thought on her as fairest of all ladies
	narrator	and done his best to win her grace.
	narrator	So the queen often sent for him, and bade him tell of his birth and strange adventures: how he was only son of great King
	narrator	Ban of Brittany
	narrator	and how, one night, his father, with his mother Helen and himself, fled from his burning castle; how his father
	narrator	groaning deeply, fell to the ground and died of grief and wounds, and how his mother, running to her husband
	narrator	left himself alone; how, as he thus lay wailing, came the lady of the lake, and took him in her arms and went with him
	narrator	into the midst of the waters
	narrator	where, with his cousins Lionel and Bors, he had been cherished all his childhood until he came to King Arthur's court; and how this was
	narrator	the reason why men called him Lancelot du Lake.
	narrator	Anon it was ordained by King Arthur, that in every year at Pentecost there should be held a festival of all the knights of the
	narrator	Round Table at Caerleon
	narrator	or such other place as he should choose.
	narrator	And at those festivals should be told publicly the most famous adventures of any knight during the past year.
	narrator	So, when Sir Lancelot saw Queen Guinevere rejoiced to hear his wanderings and adventures, he resolved to set forth yet again
	narrator	and win more worship still, that he might more increase her favor.
	narrator	Then he bade his cousin Sir Lionel make ready, "for," said he, "we two will seek adventure." So they mounted their horses--armed at all points--and
	narrator	rode into a vast forest; and when they had passed through it
	narrator	they came to a great plain, and the weather being very hot about noontide, Sir Lancelot greatly longed to sleep.
	narrator	Then Sir Lionel espied a great apple-tree standing by a hedge, and said, "Brother, yonder is a fair shadow where we may rest ourselves and
	narrator	horses."
	sir lancelot	I am full glad of it,
	narrator	said Sir Lancelot, "for all these seven years I have not been so sleepy."
	narrator	So they alighted there, and tied their horses up to sundry trees; and Sir Lionel waked and watched while Sir Lancelot fell asleep
	narrator	and slept passing fast.
	narrator	In the meanwhile came three knights, riding as fast flying as ever they could ride, and after them followed a single knight; but when Sir
	narrator	Lionel looked at him
	narrator	he thought he had never seen so great and strong a man, or so well furnished and appareled.
	narrator	Anon he saw him overtake the last of those who fled, and smite him to the ground; then came he to the second
	narrator	and smote him such a stroke that horse and man went to the earth; then rode he to the third
	narrator	likewise, and struck him off his horse more than a spear's length.
	narrator	With that he lighted from his horse, and bound all three knights fast with the reins of their own bridles.
	narrator	When Sir Lionel saw this he thought the time was come to prove himself against him, so quietly and cautiously
	narrator	lest he should wake Sir Lancelot, he took his horse and mounted and rode after him.
	narrator	Presently overtaking him, he cried aloud to him to turn, which instantly he did, and smote Sir Lionel so hard that horse and man went
	narrator	down forthwith.
	narrator	Then took he up Sir Lionel, and threw him bound over his own horse's back; and so he served the three other knights
	narrator	and rode them away to his own castle.
	narrator	There they were disarmed, stripped naked, and beaten with thorns, and afterwards thrust into a deep prison
	narrator	where many more knights, also, made great moans and lamentations, saying, "Alas, alas! there is no man can help us but Sir Lancelot
	narrator	for no other knight can match this tyrant Turquine, our conqueror."
	narrator	But all this while, Sir Lancelot lay sleeping soundly under the apple-tree.
	narrator	And, as it chanced, there passed that way four queens, of high estate, riding upon four white mules
	narrator	under four canopies of green silk borne on spears, to keep them from the sun.
	narrator	As they rode thus, they heard a great horse grimly neigh, and, turning them about, soon saw a sleeping knight that lay all armed under
	narrator	an apple-tree; and when they saw his face
	narrator	they knew it was Sir Lancelot of the Lake.
	narrator	Then they began to strive which of them should have the care of him.
	narrator	But Queen Morgan le Fay, King Arthur's half sister, the great sorceress, was one of them, and said
	narrator	"We need not strive for him, I have enchanted him, so that for six hours more he shall not wake. Let us take him to
	narrator	my castle
	narrator	and, when he wakes, himself shall choose which one of us he would rather serve." So Sir Lancelot was laid upon his shield and borne
	narrator	on horseback between two knights
	narrator	to the castle, and there laid in a cold chamber, till the spell should pass.
	narrator	Anon, they sent him a fair damsel, bearing his supper, who asked him, "What cheer?"
	sir lancelot	I cannot tell, fair damsel,
	narrator	said he, "for I know not how I came into this castle, if it were not by enchantment."
	narrator	"Sir," said she, "be of good heart, and to-morrow at dawn of day, ye shall know more."
	narrator	And so she left him alone, and there he lay all night.
	narrator	In the morning early came the four queens to him, passing richly dressed; and said,
	queen morgan le fay	Sir knight, thou must understand that thou art our prisoner, and that we know thee well for King Ban's son, Sir Lancelot du Lake.
	queen morgan le fay	And though we know full well there is one lady only in this world may have thy love
	queen morgan le fay	and she Queen Guinevere--King Arthur's wife--yet now are we resolved to have thee to serve one of us; choose
	queen morgan le fay	therefore, of us four which thou wilt serve.
	queen morgan le fay	I am Queen Morgan le Fay, Queen of the land of Gore, and here also is the Queen of Northgales
	queen morgan le fay	and the Queen of Eastland, and the Queen of the Out Isles.
	queen morgan le fay	Choose, then, at once, for else shalt thou abide here, in this prison, till thy death.
	sir lancelot	It is a hard case,
	sir lancelot	that either I must die, or choose one of you for my mistress!
	sir lancelot	Yet had I rather die in this prison than serve any living creature against my will.
	sir lancelot	So take this for my answer.
	sir lancelot	I will serve none of ye, for ye be false enchantresses.
	sir lancelot	And as for my lady, Queen Guinevere, whom lightly ye have spoken of, were I at liberty I would prove it upon you or upon
	sir lancelot	yours she is the truest lady living to her lord the king.
	queen morgan le fay	Well,
	queen morgan le fay	is this your answer, that ye refuse us all?
	sir lancelot	Yea, on my life,
	sir lancelot	refused ye be of me.
	narrator	So they departed from him in great wrath, and left him sorrowfully grieving in his dungeon.
	narrator	At noon the damsel came to him and brought his dinner, and asked him as before,
	narrator	What cheer?
	sir lancelot	Truly, fair damsel,
	sir lancelot	in all my life never so ill.
	narrator	Sir,
	damsel	I grieve to see ye so, but if ye do as I advise, I can help ye out of this distress
	damsel	and will do so if you promise me a boon.
	sir lancelot	Fair damsel,
	sir lancelot	right willingly will I grant it thee, for sorely do I dread these four witch-queens, who have destroyed and slain many a good knight with
	sir lancelot	their enchantments.
	damsel	Sir, wilt thou promise me to help my father on next Tuesday, for he hath a tournament with the King of Northgales
	damsel	and last Tuesday lost the field through three knights of King Arthur's court, who came against him.
	damsel	And if next Tuesday thou wilt aid him, to-morrow, before daylight, by God's grace, I will deliver thee.
	sir lancelot	Fair maiden,
	sir lancelot	tell me thy father's name and I will answer thee.
	damsel	My father is King Bagdemagus,
	sir lancelot	I know him well,
	sir lancelot	for a noble king and a good knight; and by the faith of my body I will do him all the service I am able
	sir lancelot	on that day.
	damsel	Gramercy to thee, Sir knight,
	damsel	To-morrow, when thou art delivered from this place, ride ten miles hence unto an abbey of white monks
	damsel	and there abide until I bring my father to thee.
	sir lancelot	So be it,
	sir lancelot	as I am a true knight.
	narrator	So she departed, and on the morrow, early, came again, and let him out of twelve gates
	narrator	differently locked, and brought him to his armor; and when he was all armed, she brought him his horse also
	narrator	and lightly he saddled him, and took a great spear in his hand, and mounted and rode forth
	narrator	saying, as he went,
	sir lancelot	Fair damsel, I shall not fail thee, by the grace of God.
	narrator	And all that day he rode in a great forest, and could find no highway, and spent the night in the wood; but the next
	narrator	morning found his road
	narrator	and came to the abbey of white monks.
	narrator	And there he saw King Bagdemagus and his daughter waiting for him.
	narrator	So when they were together in a chamber, Sir Lancelot told the king how he had been betrayed by an enchantment
	narrator	and how his brother Lionel was gone he knew not where, and how the damsel had delivered him from the castle of Queen Morgan le
	narrator	Fay.
	sir lancelot	Wherefore while I live,
	sir lancelot	I shall do service to herself and all her kindred.
	king bagdemagus	Then am I sure of thy aid,
	king bagdemagus	on Tuesday now next coming?
	sir lancelot	Yea, sir,
	sir lancelot	I shall not fail thee,
	sir lancelot	but what knights were they who last week defeated thee, and took part with the King of Northgales?
	king bagdemagus	Sir Mador de la Port, Sir Modred, and Sir Gahalatine,
	sir lancelot	Sir,
	sir lancelot	as I understand, the tournament shall take place but three miles from this abbey; send then to me here
	sir lancelot	three knights of thine, the best thou hast, and let them all have plain white shields, such as I also will; then will we four
	sir lancelot	come suddenly into the midst between both parties
	sir lancelot	and fall upon thy enemies, and grieve them all we can, and none will know us who we are.
	narrator	So, on the Tuesday, Sir Lancelot and the three knights lodged themselves in a small grove hard by the lists.
	narrator	Then came into the field the King of Northgales, with one hundred and sixty helms, and the three knights of King Arthur's court
	narrator	who stood apart by themselves.
	narrator	And when King Bagdemagus had arrived, with eighty helms, both companies set all their spears in rest and came together with a mighty clash
	narrator	wherein were slain twelve knights of King Bagdemagus, and six of the King of Northgales; and the party of King Bagdemagus was driven back.
	narrator	With that, came Sir Lancelot, and thrust into the thickest of the press, and smote down with one spear five knights
	narrator	and brake the backs of four, and cast down the King of Northgales, and brake his thigh by the fall.
	narrator	When the three knights of Arthur's court saw this, they rode at Sir Lancelot, and each after other attacked him; but he overthrew them all
	narrator	and smote them nigh to death.
	narrator	Then, taking a new spear, he bore down to the ground sixteen more knights, and hurt them all so sorely
	narrator	that they could carry arms no more that day.
	narrator	And when his spear at length was broken, he took yet another, and smote down twelve knights more
	narrator	the most of whom he wounded mortally, till in the end the party of the King of Northgales would joust no more
	narrator	and the victory was cried to King Bagdemagus.
	narrator	Then Sir Lancelot rode forth with King Bagdemagus to his castle, and there he feasted with great cheer and welcome
	narrator	and received many royal gifts.
	narrator	And on the morrow he took leave and went to find his brother Lionel.
	narrator	Anon, by chance, he came to the same forest where the four queens had found him sleeping
	narrator	and there he met a damsel riding on a white palfrey.
	narrator	When they had saluted each other, Sir Lancelot said,
	sir lancelot	Fair damsel, knowest thou where any adventures may be had in this country?
	narrator	"Sir knight," said she,
	damsel	There are adventures great enough close by if thou darest prove them.
	sir lancelot	Why should I not, since for that cause I came here?
	narrator	"Sir," said the damsel, "hard by this place there dwelleth a knight that cannot be defeated by any man
	narrator	so great and perilously strong he is. His name is Sir Turquine, and in the prisons of his castle lie three score knights and four
	narrator	mostly from King Arthur's court, whom he hath taken with his own hands. But promise me, ere thou undertakest their deliverance
	narrator	to go and help me afterwards, and free me and many other ladies that are distressed by a false knight."
	sir lancelot	Bring me but to this felon Turquine, quoth Sir Lancelot, "and I will afterwards fulfill all your wishes.
	narrator	So the damsel went before, and brought him to a ford, and a tree whereon a great brass basin hung; and Sir Lancelot beat with
	narrator	his spear-end upon the basin
	narrator	long and hard, until he beat the bottom of it out, but he saw nothing.
	narrator	Then he rode to and fro before the castle gates for wellnigh half an hour, and anon saw a great knight riding from the distance
	narrator	driving a horse before him, across which hung an armed man bound.
	narrator	And when they came near, Sir Lancelot knew the prisoner for a knight of the Round Table.
	narrator	By that time, the great knight who drove the prisoner saw Sir Lancelot, and each of them began to settle his spear
	narrator	and to make ready.
	sir lancelot	Fair sir, put off that wounded knight, I pray thee, from his horse, and let him rest while thou and I shall prove our strength
	sir lancelot	upon each other; for
	sir lancelot	as I am told, thou doest, and hast done, great shame and injury to knights of the Round Table. Wherefore
	sir lancelot	I warn thee now, defend thyself.
	sir turquine	If thou mayest be of the Round Table, I defy thee, and all thy fellows.
	sir lancelot	That is saying overmuch.
	narrator	Then, setting their lances in rest, they spurred their horses towards each other, as fast as they could go
	narrator	and smote so fearfully upon each other's shields, that both their horses' backs brake under them.
	narrator	As soon as they could clear their saddles, they took their shields before them, and drew their swords
	narrator	and came together eagerly, and fought with great and grievous strokes; and soon they both had many grim and fearful wounds
	narrator	and bled in streams.
	narrator	Thus they fought two hours and more, thrusting and smiting at each other, wherever they could hit.
	narrator	Anon, they both were breathless, and stood leaning on their swords.
	sir turquine	Now, comrade, let us wait awhile, and answer me what I shall ask thee.
	sir lancelot	Say on.
	sir turquine	Thou art, said Turquine, "the best man I ever met, and seemest like one that I hate above all other knights that live; but if
	sir turquine	thou be not he
	sir turquine	I will make peace with thee, and for sake of thy great valor, will deliver all the three score prisoners and four who lie within
	sir turquine	my dungeons
	sir turquine	and thou and I will be companions evermore. Tell me, then, thy name.
	sir lancelot	Thou sayest well, replied Sir Lancelot; "but who is he thou hatest so above all others?
	sir turquine	His name, said Turquine, "is Sir Lancelot of the Lake; and he slew my brother Sir Carados
	sir turquine	at the dolorous tower; wherefore, if ever I shall meet with him, one of us two shall slay the other; and thereto I have sworn
	sir turquine	by a great oath. And to discover and destroy him I have slain a hundred knights
	sir turquine	and crippled utterly as many more, and many have died in my prisons; and now, as I have told thee
	sir turquine	I have many more therein, who all shall be delivered, if thou tell me thy name, and it be not Sir Lancelot.
	sir lancelot	Well, said Lancelot, "I am that knight, son of King Ban of Benwick, and Knight of the Round Table; so now I defy thee to
	sir lancelot	do thy best!
	sir turquine	Aha! said Turquine, with a shout, "is it then so at last! Thou art more welcome to my sword than ever knight or lady was
	sir turquine	to feast
	sir turquine	for never shall we part till one of us be dead.
	narrator	Then did they hurtle together like two wild bulls, slashing and lashing with their shields and swords
	narrator	and sometimes falling both on to the ground.
	narrator	For two more hours they fought so, and at the last Sir Turquine grew very faint, and gave a little back
	narrator	and bare his shield full low for weariness.
	narrator	When Sir Lancelot saw him thus, he leaped upon him fiercely as a lion, and took him by the crest of his helmet
	narrator	and dragged him to his knees; and then he tore his helmet off and smote his neck asunder.
	narrator	Then he arose, and went to the damsel who had brought him to Sir Turquine, and said
	sir lancelot	I am ready, fair lady, to go with thee upon thy service, but I have no horse.
	damsel	Fair sir, take ye this horse of the wounded knight whom Turquine but just now was carrying to his prisons
	damsel	and send that knight on to deliver all the prisoners.
	narrator	So Sir Lancelot went to the knight and prayed him for the loan of his horse.
	knight	Fair lord, said he, "ye are right welcome, for to-day ye have saved both me and my horse; and I see that ye are the
	knight	best knight in all the world
	knight	for in my sight have ye slain the mightiest man and the best knight, except thyself, I ever saw.
	sir lancelot	I thank thee well; and now go into yonder castle, where thou shalt find many noble knights of the Round Table
	sir lancelot	for I have seen their shields hung on the trees around. On yonder tree alone there are Sir Key's
	sir lancelot	Sir Brandel's, Sir Marhaus', Sir Galind's, and Sir Aliduke's, and many more; and also my two kinsmen's shields
	sir lancelot	Sir Ector de Maris' and Sir Lionel's. And I pray you greet them all from me, Sir Lancelot of the Lake
	sir lancelot	and tell them that I bid them help themselves to any treasures they can find within the castle; and that I pray my brethren
	sir lancelot	Lionel and Ector, to go to King Arthur's court and stay there till I come. And by the high feast at Pentecost I must be
	sir lancelot	there; but now I must ride forth with this damsel to fulfill my promise.
	narrator	So, as they went, the damsel told him,
	damsel	Sir, we are now near the place where the foul knight haunteth, who robbeth and distresseth all ladies and gentlewomen traveling past this way
	damsel	against whom I have sought thy aid.
	narrator	Then they arranged that she should ride on foremost, and Sir Lancelot should follow under cover of the trees by the roadside
	narrator	and if he saw her come to any mishap, he should ride forth and deal with him that troubled her.
	narrator	And as the damsel rode on at a soft ambling pace, a knight and page burst forth from the roadside and forced the damsel from
	narrator	her horse
	narrator	till she cried out for help.
	narrator	Then came Sir Lancelot rushing through the wood as fast as he might fly, and all the branches of the trees crackled and waved around
	narrator	him.
	sir lancelot	O thou false knight and traitor to all knighthood! who taught thee to distress fair ladies thus?
	narrator	The foul knight answered nothing, but drew out his sword and rode at Sir Lancelot, who threw his spear away and drew his own sword
	narrator	likewise
	narrator	and struck him such a mighty blow as clave his head down to the throat.
	sir lancelot	Now hast thou the wages thou long hast earned!
	narrator	and so departed from the damsel.
	narrator	Then for two days he rode in a great forest, and had but scanty food and lodging
	narrator	and on the third day he rode over a long bridge, when suddenly there started up a passing foul churl
	narrator	and smote his horse across the nose, so that he started and turned back, rearing with pain.
	churl	Why ridest thou over here without my leave?
	sir lancelot	Why should I not? there is no other way to ride.
	churl	Thou shalt not pass by here,
	narrator	cried out the churl, and dashed at him with a great club full of iron spikes, till Sir Lancelot was fain to draw his sword
	narrator	and smite him dead upon the earth.
	narrator	At the end of the bridge was a fair village, and all the people came and cried
	people	Ah, sir! a worse deed for thyself thou never didst, for thou hast slain the chief porter of the castle yonder!
	narrator	But he let them talk as they pleased, and rode straight forward to the castle.
	narrator	There he alighted, and tied his horse to a ring in the wall; and going in, he saw a wide green court
	narrator	and thought it seemed a noble place to fight in.
	narrator	And as he looked about, he saw many people watching him from doors and windows, making signs of warning
	narrator	and saying,
	people	Fair knight, thou art unhappy.
	narrator	In the next moment came upon him two great giants, well armed save their heads, and with two horrible clubs in their hands.
	narrator	Then he put his shield before him, and with it warded off one giant's stroke, and clove the other with his sword from the head
	narrator	downward to the chest.
	narrator	When the first giant saw that, he ran away mad with fear; but Sir Lancelot ran after him
	narrator	and smote him through the shoulder, and shore him down his back, so that he fell dead.
	narrator	Then he walked onward to the castle hall, and saw a band of sixty ladies and young damsels coming forth
	narrator	who knelt to him, and thanked him for their freedom.
	ladies	For, sir, the most of us have been prisoners here these seven years; and have been kept at all manner of work to earn our
	ladies	meat
	ladies	though we be all great gentlewomen born. Blessed be the time that thou wast born, for never did a knight a deed of greater worship
	ladies	than thou hast this day
	ladies	and thereto will we all bear witness in all times and places! Tell us, therefore, noble knight
	ladies	thy name and court, that we may tell them to our friends!
	narrator	And when they heard it, they all cried aloud,
	ladies	Well may it be so, for we knew that no knight save thou shouldst ever overcome those giants; and many a long day have we
	ladies	sighed for thee; for the giants feared no other name among all knights but thine.
	narrator	Then he told them to take the treasures of the castle as a reward for their grievances; and to return to their homes
	narrator	and so rode away into many strange and wild countries.
	narrator	And at last, after many days, by chance he came, near the night time, to a fair mansion
	narrator	wherein he found an old gentlewoman, who gave him and his horse good cheer.
	narrator	And when bed time was come, his host brought him to a chamber over a gate, and there he unarmed
	narrator	and went to bed and fell asleep.
	narrator	But soon thereafter came one riding in great haste, and knocking vehemently at the gate below, which when Sir Lancelot heard
	narrator	he rose and looked out of the window, and, by the moonlight, saw three knights come riding fiercely after one man
	narrator	and lashing on him all at once with their swords, while the one knight nobly fought them all.
	narrator	Then Sir Lancelot quickly armed himself, and getting through the window, let himself down by a sheet into the midst of them
	narrator	crying out,
	sir lancelot	Turn ye on me, ye cowards, and leave fighting with that knight!
	narrator	Then they all left Sir Key, for the first knight was he, and began to fall upon Sir Lancelot furiously.
	narrator	And when Sir Key would have come forward to assist him, Sir Lancelot refused, and cried,
	sir lancelot	Leave me alone to deal with them.
	narrator	And presently, with six great strokes, he felled them all.
	narrator	Then they cried out,
	knights	Sir knight, we yield us unto thee, as to a man of might!
	sir lancelot	I will not take your yielding! yield ye to Sir Key, the seneschal, or I will have your lives.
	narrator	Fair knight,
	narrator	said they, "excuse us in that thing, for we have chased
	narrator	Sir Key thus far, and should have overcome him but for thee."
	sir lancelot	Well,
	narrator	said Sir Lancelot, "do as ye will, for ye may live or die; but,
	narrator	if ye live, ye shall be holden to Sir Key."
	narrator	Then they yielded to him; and Sir Lancelot commanded them to go unto
	narrator	King Arthur's court at the next Pentecost, and say, Sir Key had sent
	narrator	them prisoners to Queen Guinevere.
	narrator	And this they sware to do upon their
	narrator	swords.
	narrator	Then Sir Lancelot knocked at the gate with his sword-hilt till his
	narrator	hostess came and let him in again, and Sir Key also.
	narrator	And when the light
	narrator	came, Sir Key knew Sir Lancelot, and knelt and thanked him for his
	narrator	courtesy, and gentleness, and kindness.
	narrator	"Sir," said he, "I have done no
	narrator	more than what I ought to do, and ye are welcome; therefore let us now
	narrator	take rest."
	narrator	So when Sir Key had supped, they went to sleep, and Sir Lancelot and he
	narrator	slept in the same bed.
	narrator	On the morrow, Sir Lancelot rose early, and took
	narrator	Sir Key's shield and armor and set forth.
	narrator	When Sir Key arose, he found
	narrator	Sir Lancelot's armor by his bedside, and his own arms gone.
	narrator	"Now, by my
	narrator	faith," thought he, "I know that he will grieve some knights of our
	narrator	king's court; for those who meet him will be bold to joust with him,
	narrator	mistaking him for me, while I, dressed in his shield and armor, shall
	narrator	surely ride in peace."
	narrator	Then Sir Lancelot, dressed in Sir Key's apparel, rode long in a great
	narrator	forest, and came at last to a low country, full of rivers and fair
	narrator	meadows, and saw a bridge before him, whereon were three silk tents of
	narrator	divers colors, and to each tent was hung a white shield, and by each
	narrator	shield stood a knight.
	narrator	So Sir Lancelot went by without speaking a word.
	narrator	And when he had passed, the three knights said it was the proud Sir Key,
	narrator	"who thinketh no knight equal to himself, although the contrary is full
	narrator	often proved upon him."
	narrator	"By my faith!" said one of them, named Gaunter, "I will ride after and
	narrator	attack him for all his pride, and ye shall watch my speed."
	narrator	Then, taking shield and spear, he mounted and rode after Sir Lancelot,
	narrator	and cried, "Abide, proud knight, and turn, for thou shalt not pass
	narrator	free!"
	narrator	So Sir Lancelot turned, and each one put his spear in rest and came with
	narrator	all his might against the other.
	narrator	And Sir Gaunter's spear brake short,
	narrator	but Sir Lancelot smote him down, both horse and man.
	narrator	When the other knights saw this, they said, "Yonder is not Sir Key, but
	narrator	a bigger man."
	narrator	"I dare wager my head," said Sir Gilmere, "yonder knight hath slain Sir
	narrator	Key, and taken his horse and harness."
	narrator	"Be it so, or not," said Sir Reynold, the third brother; "let us now go
	narrator	to our brother Gaunter's rescue; we shall have enough to do to match
	narrator	that knight, for, by his stature, I believe it is Sir Lancelot or Sir
	narrator	Tristram."
	narrator	Anon, they took their horses and galloped after Sir Lancelot; and Sir
	narrator	Gilmere first assailed him, but was smitten down forthwith, and lay
	narrator	stunned on the earth.
	narrator	Then said Sir Reynold, "Sir knight, thou art a
	narrator	strong man, and, I believe, hast slain my two brothers, wherefore my
	narrator	heart is sore against thee; yet, if I might with honor, I would avoid
	narrator	thee.
	narrator	Nevertheless, that cannot be, so keep thyself."
	narrator	And so they
	narrator	hurtled together with all their might, and each man shivered his spear
	narrator	to pieces; and then they drew their swords and lashed out eagerly.
	narrator	And as they fought, Sir Gaunter and Sir Gilmere presently arose and
	narrator	mounted once again, and came down at full tilt upon Sir Lancelot.
	narrator	But,
	narrator	when he saw them coming, he put forth all his strength, and struck Sir
	narrator	Reynold off his horse.
	narrator	Then, with two other strokes, he served the
	narrator	others likewise.
	narrator	Anon, Sir Reynold crept along the ground, with his head all bloody,
	narrator	and came towards Sir Lancelot.
	narrator	"It is enough," said Lancelot, "I was not far
	narrator	from thee when thou wast made a knight, Sir Reynold, and know thee for a
	narrator	good and valiant man, and was full loth to slay thee."
	narrator	"Gramercy for thy gentleness!" said Sir Reynold.
	narrator	"I and my brethren will
	narrator	straightway yield to thee when we know thy name, for well we know that
	narrator	thou art not Sir Key."
	narrator	"As for that," said Sir Lancelot, "be it as it may, but ye shall yield
	narrator	to Queen Guinevere at the next Feast of Pentecost as prisoners, and say
	narrator	that Sir Key sent ye."
	narrator	Then they swore to him it should be done as he commanded.
	narrator	And so Sir
	narrator	Lancelot passed on, and the three brethren helped each other's wounds as
	narrator	best they might.
	narrator	Then rode Sir Lancelot forward into a deep forest, and came upon four
	narrator	knights of King Arthur's court, under an oak tree--Sir Sagramour, Sir
	narrator	Ector, Sir Gawain, and Sir Ewaine.
	narrator	And when they spied him, they thought
	narrator	he was Sir Key.
	narrator	"Now by my faith," said Sir Sagramour, "I will prove Sir
	narrator	Key's might!" and taking his spear he rode towards Sir Lancelot.
	narrator	But Sir Lancelot was aware of him, and, setting his spear in rest,
	narrator	smote him so sorely, that horse and man fell to the earth.
	narrator	"Lo!" cried Sir Ector, "I see by the buffet that knight hath given our
	narrator	fellow he is stronger than Sir Key.
	narrator	Now will I try what I can do against
	narrator	him!"
	narrator	So Sir Ector took his spear, and galloped at Sir Lancelot; and Sir
	narrator	Lancelot met him as he came, and smote him through shield and shoulder,
	narrator	so that he fell, but his own spear was not broken.
	narrator	"By my faith," cried Sir Ewaine, "yonder is a strong knight, and must
	narrator	have slain Sir Key, and taken his armor!
	narrator	By his strength, I see it will
	narrator	be hard to match him."
	narrator	So saying he rode towards Sir Lancelot, who met
	narrator	him halfway and struck him so fiercely, that at one blow he overthrew
	narrator	him also.
	narrator	"Now," said Sir Gawain, "will I encounter him." So he took a good spear
	narrator	in his hand, and guarded himself with his shield.
	narrator	And he and Sir
	narrator	Lancelot rode against each other, with their horses at full speed, and
	narrator	furiously smote each other on the middle of their shields; but Sir
	narrator	Gawain's spear broke short asunder, and Sir Lancelot charged so mightily
	narrator	upon him, that his horse and he both fell, and rolled upon the ground.
	sir lancelot	Ah, heaven give joy to him who made this spear, for never held I better in my hand.
	narrator	But the four knights said to each other, "Truly one spear hath felled us all."
	sir gawain	I dare lay my life, it is Sir Lancelot. I know him by his riding.
	narrator	So they all departed for the court.
	narrator	And as Sir Lancelot rode still in the forest, he saw a black bloodhound, running with its head towards the ground
	narrator	as if it tracked a deer.
	narrator	And following after it, he came to a great pool of blood.
	narrator	But the hound, ever and anon looking behind, ran through a great marsh, and over a bridge
	narrator	towards an old manor house.
	narrator	So Sir Lancelot followed, and went into the hall, and saw a dead knight lying there, whose wounds the hound licked.
	narrator	And a lady stood behind him, weeping and wringing her hands, who cried, "O knight! too great is the sorrow which thou hast brought me!"
	sir lancelot	Why say ye so? for I never harmed this knight, and am full sorely grieved to see thy sorrow.
	narrator	"Nay, sir," said the lady, "I see it is not thou hast slain my husband, for he that truly did that deed is deeply wounded
	narrator	and shall never more recover."
	sir lancelot	What is thy husband's name?
	narrator	"His name," she answered, "was Sir Gilbert--one of the best knights in all the world; but I know not his name who hath slain him."
	sir lancelot	God send thee comfort,
	narrator	and departed again into the forest.
	narrator	And as he rode, he met with a damsel who knew him, who cried out, "Well found
	narrator	my lord! I pray ye of your knighthood help my brother, who is sore wounded and ceases not to bleed
	narrator	for he fought this day with Sir Gilbert, and slew him, but was himself well nigh slain. And there is a sorceress
	narrator	who dwelleth in a castle hard by, and she this day hath told me that my brother's wound shall never be made whole until I
	narrator	find a knight to go into the Chapel Perilous
	narrator	and bring from thence a sword and the bloody cloth in which the wounded knight was wrapped."
	sir lancelot	This is a marvelous thing! but what is your brother's name?
	narrator	"His name, sir," she replied, "is Sir Meliot de Logres."
	sir lancelot	He is a Fellow of the Round Table, and truly will I do my best to help him.
	narrator	"Then, sir," said she, "follow this way, and it will bring ye to the Chapel Perilous. I will abide here till God send ye hither
	narrator	again; for if ye speed not
	narrator	there is no living knight who may achieve that adventure."
	narrator	So Sir Lancelot departed, and when he came to the Chapel Perilous he alighted, and tied his horse to the gate.
	narrator	And as soon as he was within the churchyard, he saw on the front of the chapel many shields of knights whom he had known
	narrator	turned upside down.
	narrator	Then saw he in the pathway thirty mighty knights, taller than any men whom he had ever seen
	narrator	all armed in black armor, with their swords drawn; and they gnashed their teeth upon him as he came.
	narrator	But he put his shield before him, and took his sword in hand, ready to do battle with them.
	narrator	And when he would have cut his way through them, they scattered on every side and let him pass.
	narrator	Then he went into the chapel, and saw therein no light but of a dim lamp burning.
	narrator	Then he was aware of a corpse in the midst of the chapel, covered with a silken cloth
	narrator	and so stooped down and cut off a piece of the cloth, whereat the earth beneath him trembled.
	narrator	Then saw he a sword lying by the dead knight, and taking it in his hand, he hied him from the chapel.
	narrator	As soon as he was in the churchyard again, all the thirty knights cried out to him with fierce voices
	narrator	"Sir Lancelot! lay that sword from thee, or thou diest!"
	sir lancelot	Whether I live or die, ye shall fight for it ere ye take it from me.
	narrator	With that they let him pass.
	narrator	And further on, beyond the chapel, he met a fair damsel, who said, "Sir Lancelot, leave that sword behind thee
	narrator	or thou diest."
	sir lancelot	I will not leave it, for any asking.
	narrator	"Then, gentle knight," said the damsel, "I pray thee kiss me once."
	sir lancelot	Nay, that God forbid!
	narrator	"Alas!" cried she, "I have lost all my labor! but hadst thou kissed me, thy life's days had been all done!"
	sir lancelot	Heaven save me from thy subtle crafts!
	narrator	and therewith took his horse and galloped forth.
	narrator	And when he was departed, the damsel sorrowed greatly, and died in fifteen days.
	narrator	Her name was Ellawes, the sorceress.
	narrator	Then came Sir Lancelot to Sir Meliot's sister, who, when she saw him, clapped her hands and wept for joy
	narrator	and took him to the castle hard by, where Sir Meliot was.
	narrator	And when Sir Lancelot saw Sir Meliot, he knew him, though he was pale as ashes for loss of blood.
	narrator	And Sir Meliot, when he saw Sir Lancelot, kneeled to him and cried aloud, "O lord, Sir Lancelot! help me!"
	narrator	And thereupon, Sir Lancelot went to him and touched his wounds with the sword, and wiped them with the piece of bloody cloth.
	narrator	And immediately he was as whole as though he had been never wounded.
	narrator	Then was there great joy between him and Sir Meliot; and his sister made Sir Lancelot good cheer.
	narrator	So on the morrow, he took his leave, that he might go to King Arthur's court, "for," said he
	narrator	"it draweth nigh the Feast of Pentecost, and there, by God's grace, shall ye then find me."
	narrator	And riding through many strange countries, over marshes and valleys, he came at length before a castle.
	narrator	As he passed by he heard two little bells ringing, and looking up, he saw a falcon flying overhead
	narrator	with bells tied to her feet, and long strings dangling from them.
	narrator	And as the falcon flew past an elm-tree, the strings caught in the boughs, so that she could fly no further.
	narrator	In the meanwhile, came a lady from the castle, and cried, "Oh, Sir Lancelot! as thou art the flower of all knights in the world
	narrator	help me to get my hawk, for she hath slipped away from me, and if she be lost
	narrator	my lord my husband is so hasty, he will surely slay me!"
	sir lancelot	What is thy lord's name?
	narrator	His name,
	lady of the lake	is Sir Phelot, a knight of the King of Northgales.
	sir lancelot	Fair lady, since you know my name, and require me, on my knighthood, to help you, I will do what I can to get your
	sir lancelot	hawk.
	narrator	And thereupon alighting, he tied his horse to the same tree, and prayed the lady to unarm him.
	narrator	So when he was unarmed, he climbed up and reached the falcon, and threw it to the lady.
	narrator	Then suddenly came down, out of the wood, her husband, Sir Phelot, all armed, with a drawn sword in his hand
	narrator	and said,
	sir phelot	Oh, Sir Lancelot! now have I found thee as I would have thee!
	narrator	and stood at the trunk of the tree to slay him.
	sir lancelot	Ah, lady! why have ye betrayed me?
	sir phelot	She hath done as I commanded her, and thine hour is come that thou must die.
	sir lancelot	It were shame, for an armed to slay an unarmed man.
	sir phelot	Thou hast no other favor from me.
	sir lancelot	Alas! that ever any knight should die weaponless!
	narrator	And looking overhead, he saw a great bough without leaves, and wrenched it off the tree, and suddenly leaped down.
	narrator	Then Sir Phelot struck at him eagerly, thinking to have slain him, but Sir Lancelot put aside the stroke with the bough
	narrator	and therewith smote him on the side of the head, till he fell swooning to the ground.
	narrator	And tearing his sword from out his hands, he shore his neck through from the body.
	narrator	Then did the lady shriek dismally, and swooned as though she would die.
	narrator	But Sir Lancelot put on his armor, and with haste took his horse and departed thence, thanking God he had escaped that peril.
	narrator	And as he rode through a valley, among many wild ways, he saw a knight, with a drawn sword
	narrator	chasing a lady to slay her.
	narrator	And seeing Sir Lancelot, she cried and prayed to him to come and rescue her.
	sir lancelot	Fie on thee, knight! why wilt thou slay this lady? Thou doest shame to thyself and all knights.
	narrator	What hast thou to do between me and my wife?
	sir lancelot	Thou shalt not harm her,
	narrator	said Lancelot, "till we have first fought together."
	sir lancelot	Sir, thou doest ill, for this lady hath betrayed me.
	narrator	He speaketh falsely,
	lady of the lake	for he is jealous of me without cause, as I shall answer before Heaven; but as thou art named the most worshipful knight in the
	lady of the lake	world
	lady of the lake	I pray thee of thy true knighthood to save me, for he is without mercy.
	sir lancelot	Be of good cheer, said Sir Lancelot; "it shall not lie within his power to harm thee.
	sir lancelot	Sir, I will be ruled as ye will have me.
	narrator	So Sir Lancelot rode between the knight and the lady.
	narrator	And when they had ridden awhile, the knight cried out suddenly to Sir Lancelot to turn and see what men they were who came riding
	narrator	after them; and while Sir Lancelot
	narrator	thinking not of treason, turned to look, the knight, with one great stroke, smote off the lady's head.
	sir lancelot	Thou traitor! Thou hast shamed me forever!
	narrator	and, alighting from his horse, he drew his sword to have slain him instantly; but the knight fell on the ground and clasped Sir Lancelot's
	narrator	knees
	narrator	and cried out for mercy.
	sir lancelot	Thou shameful knight, answered Lancelot, "thou mayest have no mercy, for thou showedst none, therefore arise and fight with me.
	sir lancelot	Nay, said the knight, "I will not rise till thou dost grant me mercy.
	sir lancelot	Now will I deal fairly by thee, said Sir Lancelot; "I will unarm me to my shirt
	sir lancelot	and have my sword only in my hand, and if thou canst slay me thou shalt be quit forever.
	sir lancelot	That will I never do, said the knight.
	sir lancelot	Then, answered Sir Lancelot, "take this lady and the head, and bear it with thee, and swear to me upon thy sword never to rest
	sir lancelot	until thou comest to Queen Guinevere.
	sir lancelot	That will I do, said he.
	sir lancelot	Now, said Sir Lancelot, "tell me thy name.
	sir pedivere	It is Pedivere, answered the knight.
	sir lancelot	In a shameful hour wert thou born, said Sir Lancelot.
	narrator	So Sir Pedivere departed, bearing with him the dead lady and her head.
	narrator	And when he came to Winchester, where the Queen was with King Arthur, he told them all the truth; and afterwards did great and heavy
	narrator	penance many years
	narrator	and became an holy hermit.
	narrator	So, two days before the Feast of Pentecost, Sir Lancelot returned to the court, and King Arthur was full glad of his coming.
	narrator	And when Sir Gawain, Sir Ewaine, Sir Sagramour, and Sir Ector, saw him in Sir Key's armor
	narrator	they knew well it was he who had smitten them all down with one spear.
	narrator	Anon, came all the knights Sir Turquine had taken prisoners, and gave worship and honor to Sir Lancelot.
	narrator	Then Sir Key told the King how Sir Lancelot had rescued him when he was in near danger of his death; "and," said Sir Key
	narrator	"he made the knights yield, not to himself, but me. And by Heaven! because Sir Lancelot took my armor and left me his
	narrator	I rode in peace, and no man would have aught to do with me." Then came the knights who fought with Sir Lancelot at the
	narrator	long bridge and yielded themselves also to Sir Key
	narrator	but he said nay, he had not fought with them.
	narrator	"It is Sir Lancelot," said he, "that overcame ye." Next came Sir Meliot de Logres, and told King Arthur how Sir Lancelot had saved him
	narrator	from death.
	narrator	And so all Sir Lancelot's deeds and great adventures were made known; how the four sorceress-queens had him in prison; how he was delivered by
	narrator	the daughter of King Bagdemagus
	narrator	and what deeds of arms he did at the tournament between the King of North Wales and King Bagdemagus.
	narrator	And so, at that festival, Sir Lancelot had the greatest name of any knight in all the world
	narrator	and by high and low was he the most honored of all men.
