	narrator	Now it happened that as Sir Gawain was riding one day through the country he encountered a troop of knights
	narrator	followed by a squire, who led a Spanish charger, and about whose neck was hung a shield.
	narrator	Gawain rode up to the squire and said,
	sir gawain	Tell me, what is yonder troop that hath ridden by?
	squire	Sir, Meliance of Lis, a brave and hardy knight.
	sir gawain	Is it to him you belong?
	squire	Nay, sir, my master is Teudaves, a knight as worthy as this one.
	sir gawain	Teudaves I know. Whither fareth he? Tell me the truth.
	squire	He proceedeth to a tourney, sir, which this Meliance of Lis hath undertaken against Thiebault of Tintagel. If you will take my advice you will
	squire	throw yourself into the castle
	squire	and take part against the outsiders.
	sir gawain	Was it not, in the house of this Thiebault that Meliance of Lis was nurtured?
	squire	Aye, sir, so God save me! His father loved Thiebault and trusted him so much that on his death-bed he committed to his care his
	squire	little son
	squire	whom Thiebault cherished and protected, until the time came when the youth petitioned his daughter to give him her love; but she replied that she
	squire	would never do that until he should be made a knight. The youth
	squire	being ardent, forthwith had himself knighted, and then returned to the maiden. 'Nay,' answered the girl to his renewed suit
	squire	'it shall never be, until in my presence you shall have achieved such feats of arms that I will know my love hath cost you
	squire	somewhat; for those things which come suddenly are not so sweet as those we earn. If you wish my love
	squire	take a tournament of my father. I desire to be certain that my love would be well placed in case I were to grant it.'
	squire	What she suggested he performed
	squire	for love hath such lordship over lovers that those who are under his power would never dare refuse whatever it pleased him to enjoin. And
	squire	you
	squire	sir, sluggish will you be if you do not enter the castle, for they will need you greatly
	squire	if you might help them.
	sir gawain	Brother, go thy way, it would be wise of you, and let my affairs be.
	narrator	So the squire departed, and Gawain rode towards Tintagel, for there was no other way by which he could pass.
	narrator	Now Thiebault had summoned all his kith and kin, who had come, high and low, old and young; but he could not get the permission
	narrator	of his council to joust with his master
	narrator	for the councillors feared lest he should utterly ruin their castle.
	narrator	Therefore the gates had been walled up with stones and mortar, leaving as the only approach one small postern
	narrator	which had a gate made of copper, as much as a cart could haul.
	narrator	Sir Gawain rode to the gate, behind the troop that bore his harness, for there was no other road within seven leagues.
	narrator	He found the postern shut and so he turned into a close below the tower, that was fenced with a palisade.
	narrator	He dismounted under an oak and hung up his shields.
	narrator	Thither came the folk from the castle, most of them sorry that the tourney had been abandoned; in the fortress was an aged nobleman
	narrator	great in land and lineage, whose word no one disputed.
	narrator	A long way off the troop had been pointed out to him, and before they rode into the close he went to Thiebault
	narrator	and said,
	narrator	Sir, so God save me, I have seen two companions of King Arthur, worthy men, who ride this way; I advise you to tourney with
	narrator	good hope
	narrator	for we have brave knights, and servants, and archers, who will slay their horses, and I am certain they will joust before this gate; if
	narrator	their pride shall bring them the gain will be ours
	narrator	and theirs will be the loss and the shame.
	narrator	As a result of this counsel Thiebault allowed those who wished to take their arms and sally forth.
	narrator	The knights were right glad, and their squires ran after their horses, while the dames and the damsels climbed high places to see the tourney.
	narrator	Below, in the meadow, they saw the arms of Sir Gawain, and at first thought that there were two knights
	narrator	because two shields hung from the tree.
	narrator	They cried out that they were fortunate to see two such knights arm.
	narrator	So some thought; but others exclaimed,
	narrator	Fair Lord God, this knight hath arms and steeds sufficient for two; if he hath no companion
	narrator	what will he do with two shields?
	narrator	Never was seen a knight who carried two shields at one and the same time.
	narrator	It is very strange if one man means to bear two shields.
	narrator	While the ladies talked and the knights went forth from the castle the elder daughter of Thiebault mounted to the tower
	narrator	she on account of whom the tournament had been undertaken, and with her her younger sister, whose sleeves were so quaint that she was called
	narrator	the Maid with the Narrow Sleeves
	narrator	for she wore them tight.
	narrator	Dames and damsels climbed the tower with them, and the tourney was joined in front of the castle.
	narrator	None bore himself so well as Meliance of Lis, by the testimony of his fair friend, who said to those about her
	elder daughter of thiebault	Ladies, never did I see a knight who delighted me as doth Meliance of Lis. Is it not a pleasure to see such a knight?
	elder daughter of thiebault	That man must have a good seat and be skillful in the use of lance and shield who beareth himself so excellently.
	narrator	Thereupon her sister, who sat by her side, said that she saw a fairer knight.
	narrator	The elder maiden was angry and rose to strike her sister.
	narrator	But the ladies interfered, and held her back, so that she missed her blow, which greatly incensed her.
	narrator	In the tournament many lances were shivered, shields pierced, and knights unhorsed; and it went hard with the knight who met Meliance of Lis
	narrator	for there was none he did not throw on the hard ground.
	narrator	If his lance broke, he dealt great blows with his sword; and he bore himself better than any other knight on either side
	narrator	to the great joy of his fair friend, who could not resist exclaiming,
	maid with the narrow sleeves	Ladies, it is wonderful! Behold the best bachelor knight of whom minstrel hath ever sung or whom eyes have ever seen
	maid with the narrow sleeves	the fairest and bravest of all those in the tourney!
	narrator	Then the little girl cried
	maid with the narrow sleeves	I see a handsomer one, and 'tis like, a better!
	narrator	The elder sister grew hot.
	narrator	"Ha, girl, you were malapert when you were so unlucky as to blame one whom I praised! Take that
	narrator	to teach you better another time!" So saying, she slapped her sister, so hard that she left on the little girl's cheek the print of
	narrator	her five fingers.
	narrator	But the ladies who sat near scolded her and took her away.
	narrator	After that they fell to talking of Sir Gawain.
	narrator	One of the damsels said
	damsel	The knight beneath yonder tree, why doth he delay to take arms?
	narrator	A second damsel, who was ruder, exclaimed
	damsel	He hath sworn to keep the peace.
	narrator	And a third added
	damsel	He is a merchant. Don't tell me that he desireth to joust; he bringeth horses to market.
	narrator	'He is a money-changer,' said a fourth. 'The goods he hath he meaneth to sell to poor bachelors.
	narrator	Trust me, he hath money or raiment in those chests.'
	narrator	You have wicked tongues!' cried the little girl. 'And you lie!
	narrator	Do you think a merchant would bear such huge lances?
	narrator	You tire me to death, talking such nonsense!
	narrator	By the faith that I owe the Holy Spirit, he seemeth to me a knight rather than a merchant or a money-changer.
	narrator	He is a knight, and he looketh like one!
	narrator	The ladies all cried with one voice, "Fair sweet friend, if he looketh so, it doth not follow that he is so. He putteth it
	narrator	on because he wisheth to cheat the tariff. But in spite of all his cleverness he is a fool
	narrator	for he will be taken up and hung for a cheat."
	narrator	Now Gawain heard all that the ladies said about him, and he was ashamed and annoyed.
	narrator	But he thought, and thought rightly, that he lay under an accusation of treason, and that it was his duty to keep his pledge or
	narrator	forever disgrace himself and his line.
	narrator	It was for this reason that he took no part in the tourney, lest, if he fought
	narrator	he should be wounded or taken prisoner.
	narrator	Meliance of Lis called for great lances, to strike harder blows.
	narrator	Until night fell the tourney continued before the gate; the man who took any booty carried it to some place where he thought it would
	narrator	be safe.
	narrator	Then the ladies saw a squire, tall and strong, who held a piece of a lance and bore on his neck a steel cap.
	narrator	One of the ladies, who was foolish, called to him, saying
	lady	Sir squire, so God help me, it is foolish of you to make prize of that tester
	lady	those arms and croup-piece. If you do a squire's duty you deserve a squire's wage. Below, in yonder meadow
	lady	is a man who hath riches he cannot defend. Unwise is he who misseth his gain while he hath the power to take it. He
	lady	seemeth the most debonair of knights
	lady	and yet he would not stir if one plucked his beard. If you are wise, take the armor and the treasure
	lady	none will hinder you.
	narrator	The squire went into the meadow and struck one of Gawain's horses, crying
	squire	Vassal, are you sick that all day long you gape here and have done nothing, neither pierced shield nor shivered lance?
	narrator	Sir Gawain answered
	sir gawain	Pray, what is it to you why I tarry? You shall know, but not now. Get you gone about your business.
	narrator	The squire withdrew, for Gawain was not the type of man to whom he would dare say anything unpleasant.
	narrator	The tourney ended, after many knights had been killed and many horses captured.
	narrator	The outsiders had had the best, and the people of the castle gained by the intermission.
	narrator	At parting they all agreed that on the morrow with songs they would meet again and continue the encounter.
	narrator	So for that night they separated and those who had sallied forth returned to the castle, followed by Sir Gawain.
	narrator	At the gate he met the nobleman who had advised his lord to engage in the tourney.
	narrator	This man accosted him pleasantly, and said
	garin	Fair sir, in this castle your hostel is ready. If it pleaseth you, remain here, for if you should go on it would be long
	garin	before you arrived at a lodging; therefore I urge you to stay.
	sir gawain	I will tarry, your mercy! I have heard worse words.
	narrator	The man led the guest to his house, talking of this and that, and asked him why on that day he had not borne arms.
	narrator	Sir Gawain explained how he had been accused of treason and was bound to be on his guard against prison and wounds until he could
	narrator	free himself from the reproach that was cast upon him
	narrator	for it would be to the dishonor of himself and his friends if he should fail to appear at the time appointed.
	narrator	The nobleman praised him, and said that if this was the reason he had done right.
	narrator	With that he led Gawain to his house, where they dismounted.
	narrator	The people of the castle blamed him, wondering how his lord would take it; while the elder daughter of Thiebault did her best to make
	narrator	trouble for Gawain
	narrator	on account of her sister, with whom she was angry.
	narrator	"Sir," she said to her father
	elder daughter of thiebault	On this day you have suffered no loss, but made a gain, greater than you think; you have only to go and take it. The
	elder daughter of thiebault	man who hath brought it will not dare to defend it
	elder daughter of thiebault	for he is wily. Lances and shields he bringeth, with palfreys and chargers, and maketh himself resemble a knight to cheat the customs
	elder daughter of thiebault	so that he may pass free when he cometh to sell his wares. Render him his deserts. He is with Garin
	elder daughter of thiebault	the son of Bertan, who hath taken him to lodge at his house. I just saw him pass.
	narrator	Thiebault took his horse, for he himself wished to go there.
	narrator	The little girl, who saw him leave, went out secretly by a back gate and straight down the hill to the house of Garin
	narrator	who had two fair daughters.
	narrator	When these saw their little lady they should have been glad, and glad they were, each took her by a hand and led her into
	narrator	the house
	narrator	kissing her eyes and lips.
	narrator	In the meantime Garin and his son Herman had left the house and were going up to the castle to speak to their lord.
	narrator	Midway there they met Thiebault and saluted him.
	narrator	He asked whither Garin was going and said he had intended to pay him a visit.
	narrator	"By my faith," said the nobleman, "that will not displease me, and at my house you shall see the fairest of knights."
	thiebault of tintagel	It is even he whom I seek, to arrest him. He is a merchant who selleth horses and pretendeth to be a knight.
	garin	Alas, 'tis a churlish speech I hear you make! I am your man and you are my master
	garin	but on the spot I renounce your homage, and in the name of all my line now defy you
	garin	rather than suffer you to disgrace my house.
	thiebault of tintagel	Indeed, I have no wish to do any such thing. Neither you nor your house shall ever receive aught but honor from me; not but
	thiebault of tintagel	what I have been counseled so to proceed.
	garin	Your great mercy! It will be my honor if you will visit my guest.
	narrator	So side by side they went on until they reached the house.
	narrator	When Sir Gawain saw them, he rose out of courtesy, and said, "Welcome!" The two saluted him and took their seats beside him.
	narrator	Then the nobleman, who was the lord of that country, asked why he had taken no part in the tourney
	narrator	and Gawain narrated how a knight had accused him of treason and how he was on his way to defend himself in a royal court.
	thiebault of tintagel	Doubtless, that is sufficient excuse. But where is the battle to be held?
	sir gawain	Sir, before the king of Cavalon, whither I am journeying.
	thiebault of tintagel	And I, will guide you. Since you must needs pass through a poor country, I will provide you with food and packbeasts to carry it.
	sir gawain	Gawain answered that he had no need to accept anything, for if it could be bought he would have food and lodging wherever he went.
	narrator	With these words Thiebault took leave.
	narrator	As he departed, from the opposite direction he saw come his little daughter, who embraced Gawain's leg
	narrator	and said, "Fair sir, listen! I have come to complain of my sister, who hath beaten me. So please you
	narrator	do me justice!"
	sir gawain	Gawain made no answer, for he did not know what she meant. He put his hand on her head
	sir gawain	while the girl pulled him, saying, "To you, fair sir, I complain of my sister. I do not love her
	sir gawain	since to-day she hath done me great shame for your sake.
	sir gawain	Fair one, what have I to do with that? How can I do you justice against your sister?
	thiebault of tintagel	Girl, who bade you come here and complain to this knight?
	sir gawain	Fair sweet sir, is this maid your daughter?
	thiebault of tintagel	Aye; but never mind what she says. A girl is a silly creature.
	sir gawain	Certes, I should be churlish if I did not do what she desires. Tell me, my sweet child and fair
	sir gawain	in what manner I can justify you against your sister.
	narrator	If it pleaseth you, for love of me, bear arms in the tourney.
	sir gawain	Tell me, dear friend, have you ever before made petition to any knight?
	narrator	No, sir.
	thiebault of tintagel	Never mind her. Pay no heed to her folly.
	sir gawain	Sir, so aid me the Lord God, for so little a girl, she hath spoken very well
	sir gawain	and I will not refuse her. To-morrow, if she wisheth, I will be her knight.
	narrator	Your mercy, fair sweet sir! cried the child, who was overjoyed, and bowed down to his feet.
	narrator	Without more words they parted.
	narrator	Thiebault carried his daughter back on the neck of his palfrey.
	narrator	As they rode up the hill be asked her what the quarrel had been about, and she told him the story from beginning to end
	narrator	saying, "Sir, I was vexed with my sister, who declared that Meliance of Lis was the best of all the knights; and I
	narrator	who had seen this knight in the meadow, could not help saying that I had seen a fairer
	narrator	whereupon my sister called me a silly girl and beat me. Fie on me, if I take it from her! I would cut off both
	narrator	my braids close to my head
	narrator	which would be a great loss, if to-morrow in the tourney this knight would conquer Meliance of Lis
	narrator	and put an end to the fuss of madam, my sister! She talked so much that she tired all the ladies; but a little rain
	narrator	will hush a great wind."
	thiebault of tintagel	Fair child, I command and allow you, in courtesy, to send him some love-token, a sleeve or a wimple.
	narrator	The child, who was simple, answered, "With pleasure since you bid me. But my sleeves are so small
	narrator	I should not like to send them. Most likely he would not care for them."
	thiebault of tintagel	Daughter, say no more. I will think about it. I am very glad.
	narrator	So saying, he took her in his arms, and had great joy of embracing and kissing her
	narrator	until he came in front of his palace.
	narrator	But when his elder daughter saw him approach, with the child before him, she was vexed, and exclaimed
	narrator	"Sir, whence cometh my sister, the Maid with the Narrow Sleeves? She is full of her tricks; she hath been quick about it; where did
	narrator	you find her?"
	thiebault of tintagel	And you, what is it to you? Hush, for she is better than you are. You pulled her hair and beat her
	thiebault of tintagel	which grieveth me. You acted rudely; you were discourteous.
	narrator	When she heard her father's rebuke, the maid was greatly abashed.
	narrator	Thiebault had brought from his chests a piece of red samite, and he bade his people cut out and make a sleeve
	narrator	wide and long.
	narrator	Then he called his daughter and said, "Child, to-morrow rise betimes and visit the knight before he leaveth his hostel. For love's sake you will
	narrator	give him this new sleeve
	narrator	which he will wear in the tourney when he goeth thither."
	narrator	The girl answered that so soon as ever she saw the clear dawn she would dress herself and go.
	narrator	With that her father went his way, while she, in great glee, charged her companions that they should not let her oversleep but should wake
	narrator	her when day broke
	narrator	if they would have her love them.
	narrator	They did as she wished, and when it dawned caused her to wake and dress.
	narrator	All alone she went to the house where Sir Gawain lodged, but, early though it was, the knights had risen and gone to the monastery
	narrator	to hear mass sung.
	narrator	She waited until they had offered long orisons and listened to the service, as much as was right.
	narrator	When they returned the child rose to greet Sir Gawain, and cried, "Sir, on this day may God save and honor you! For love of
	narrator	me
	narrator	wear the sleeve which I carry in my hand."
	narrator	With pleasure,
	narrator	he answered;
	narrator	'Friend, your mercy!'
	narrator	After that the knights were not slow to take arms, and came pouring out of the town
	narrator	while the damsels again went up to the walls and the dames of the castle saw the troops of brave and hardy knights approach.
	narrator	They rode with loose rein, and in front was Meliance of Lis, who went so fast that he left the rest in the rear
	narrator	two rods and more.
	narrator	When his maiden saw her friend she could not keep quiet, but cried,
	narrator	'Ladies, yonder comes the man who hath the lordship of chivalry!'
	narrator	As swiftly as his horse would carry him Sir Gawain charged Meliance of Lis, who did not evade the blow
	narrator	but met it boldly, and shivered his lance.
	narrator	On his part Sir Gawain smote so hard that he grieved Meliance, whom he flung on the field; the steed he grasped by the rein
	narrator	and gave to a varlet
	narrator	bidding him take it to the lady on whose account he had entered the tourney, and say that his master had sent her the first
	narrator	spoil he had made that day.
	narrator	The youth took the charger, saddled as it was, and led it towards the girl, who was sitting at the window of the tower
	narrator	whence she had watched the joust, and when she saw the encounter she cried to her sister
	maid with the narrow sleeves	Sister, there lies Meliance of Lis, whom you praised so highly! A wise man ought to give praise where it is due. You see
	maid with the narrow sleeves	I was right yesterday when I said I saw a better knight.
	narrator	Thus she teased her sister, who grew angry, and cried,
	elder daughter of thiebault	Child, hold your tongue! If you say another word, I will slap you so that you will not have a foot to stand on!
	maid with the narrow sleeves	Oh, sister,
	narrator	answered the little girl,
	maid with the narrow sleeves	Remember God! You ought not to beat me because I told you the truth. I saw him tumble as well as you; I think he
	maid with the narrow sleeves	will not be able to get up. Be as cross as you please
	maid with the narrow sleeves	I must say that there is not a lady here who did not see him fall flat on the ground.
	narrator	Her sister would have struck her, had she been able, but the ladies around would not allow it.
	narrator	With that came the squire, who held the rein in his right hand.
	narrator	He saw the girl sitting at the window and presented the steed.
	maid with the narrow sleeves	Thank you a hundred times, and bade the steed be taken in charge.
	narrator	The squire returned to tell his master, who seemed the lord of the tournament, for there was no knight so gallant that he did not
	narrator	cast from the saddle
	narrator	if he reached him with the lance.
	narrator	On that day he captured four steeds.
	narrator	The first he sent to the little girl, the second to the wife of the nobleman who had been so kind
	narrator	and the third and fourth to his own daughters.
	narrator	The tourney was over and the knights entered the city.
	narrator	On both sides the honor belonged to Sir Gawain.
	narrator	It was not yet noon when he returned from the encounter; the city was full of knights
	narrator	who ran after him, asking who he was and of what land.
	narrator	At the gate of his hostel he was met by the damsel, who did naught but grasp his stirrup
	narrator	salute him, and cry,
	maid with the narrow sleeves	A thousand mercies, fair sweet sir!
	narrator	He answered frankly,
	sir gawain	Friend, before I am recreant to your service, may I be aged and bald! I shall never be so remote
	sir gawain	but a message will bring me. If I know your need, I shall come at the first summons
	sir gawain	whatever business be mine!
	narrator	While they talked her father came and wished Sir Gawain to stay with him for that night; but first he begged
	narrator	that if his guest pleased, he would tell his name.
	sir gawain	Sir, I am called Gawain. My name was never concealed, nor have I ever told it before it hath been asked.
	narrator	When Thiebault knew that the knight was Sir Gawain his heart was full of joy, and he exclaimed
	thiebault of tintagel	Sir, be pleased to lodge with me, and accept my service. Hitherto I have done you little worship
	thiebault of tintagel	and never did I set eyes on a knight whom so much I longed to honor.
	narrator	In spite of urging, Sir Gawain refused to stay.
	narrator	The little girl, who was good and clever, clasped his foot and kissed it, commending him to God.
	sir gawain	Why have you done that?
	maid with the narrow sleeves	I have kissed your foot in order that you should remember me wherever you went.
	sir gawain	Doubt it not, fair sweet friend! I shall never forget you, after I have parted hence.
	narrator	With that Sir Gawain took leave of his host and the others, who one and all commended him to God.
	narrator	That night he slept in an abbey, and had all that was necessary.
