	narrator	It befell upon a certain day, that King Arthur said to Merlin, "My lords and knights do daily pray me now to take a wife;
	narrator	but I will have none without thy counsel
	narrator	for thou hast ever helped me since I came first to this crown."
	merlin	It is well, that thou shouldst take a wife, for no man of bounteous and noble nature should live without one; but is there any
	merlin	lady whom thou lovest better than another?
	king arthur	Yea, I love Guinevere, the daughter of King Leodegrance, of Camelgard, who also holdeth in his house the Round Table that he had from my
	king arthur	father Uther; and as I think
	king arthur	that damsel is the gentlest and the fairest lady living.
	merlin	Sir, as for her beauty, she is one of the fairest that do live; but if ye had not loved her as ye do
	merlin	I would fain have had ye choose some other who was both fair and good. But where a man's heart is set
	merlin	he will be loth to leave.
	narrator	This Merlin said, knowing the misery that should hereafter happen from this marriage.
	narrator	Then King Arthur sent word to King Leodegrance that he mightily desired to wed his daughter, and how that he had loved her since he
	narrator	saw her first
	narrator	when with Kings Ban and Bors he rescued Leodegrance from King Ryence of North Wales.
	narrator	When King Leodegrance heard the message, he cried out, "These be the best tidings I have heard in all my life--so great and worshipful a
	narrator	prince to seek my daughter for his wife! I would fain give him half my lands with her straightway
	narrator	but that he needeth none--and better will it please him that I send him the Round Table of King Uther
	narrator	his father, with a hundred good knights towards the furnishing of it with guests, for he will soon find means to gather more
	narrator	and make the table full."
	narrator	Then King Leodegrance delivered his daughter Guinevere to the messengers of King Arthur, and also the Round Table with the hundred knights.
	narrator	So they rode royally and freshly, sometimes by water and sometimes by land, towards Camelot.
	narrator	And as they rode along in the spring weather, they made full many sports and pastimes.
	narrator	And, in all those sports and games, a young knight lately come to Arthur's, court, Sir Lancelot by name
	narrator	was passing strong, and won praise from all, being full of grace and hardihood; and Guinevere also ever looked on him with joy.
	narrator	And always in the eventide, when the tents were set beside some stream or forest, many minstrels came and sang before the knights and ladies
	narrator	as they sat in the tent-doors
	narrator	and many knights would tell adventures; and still Sir Lancelot was foremost, and told the knightliest tales
	narrator	and sang the goodliest songs, of all the company.
	narrator	And when they came to Camelot, King Arthur made great joy, and all the city with him; and riding forth with a great retinue he
	narrator	met Guinevere and her company
	narrator	and led her through the streets all filled with people, and in the midst of all their shoutings and the ringing of church bells
	narrator	to a palace hard by his own.
	narrator	Then, in all haste, the king commanded to prepare the marriage and the coronation with the stateliest and most honorable pomp that could be made.
	narrator	And when the day was come, the archbishops led the king to the cathedral, whereto he walked
	narrator	clad in his royal robes, and having four kings, bearing four golden swords, before him; a choir of passing sweet music going also with him.
	narrator	In another part, was the queen dressed in her richest ornaments, and led by archbishops and bishops to the Chapel of the Virgins
	narrator	the four queens also of the four kings last mentioned walked before her, bearing four white doves
	narrator	according to ancient custom; and after her there followed many damsels, singing and making every sign of joy.
	narrator	And when the two processions were come to the churches, so wondrous was the music and the singing
	narrator	that all the knights and barons who were there pressed on each other, as in the crowd of battle
	narrator	to hear and see the most they might.
	narrator	When the king was crowned, he called together all the knights that came with the Round Table from Camelgard
	narrator	and twenty-eight others, great and valiant men, chosen by Merlin out of all the realm, towards making up the full number of the table.
	narrator	Then the Archbishop of Canterbury blessed the seats of all the knights, and when they rose again therefrom to pay their homage to King Arthur
	narrator	there was found upon the back of each knight's seat his name, written in letters of gold.
	narrator	But upon one seat was found written, "This is the Siege Perilous, wherein if any man shall sit save him whom Heaven hath chosen
	narrator	he shall be devoured by fire."
	narrator	Anon came young Gawain, the king's nephew, praying to be made a knight, whom the king knighted then and there.
	narrator	Soon after came a poor man, leading with him a tall fair lad of eighteen years of age
	narrator	riding on a lean mare.
	narrator	And falling at the king's feet, the poor man said, "Lord, it was told me, that at this time of thy marriage thou wouldst give
	narrator	to any man the gift he asked for
	narrator	so it were not unreasonable."
	king arthur	That is the truth, replied King Arthur, "and I will make it good.
	narrator	"Thou sayest graciously and nobly," said the poor man.
	narrator	"Lord, I ask nothing else but that thou wilt make my son here a knight."
	king arthur	It is a great thing that thou askest," said the king. "What is thy name?
	narrator	"Aries, the cowherd," answered he.
	king arthur	Cometh this prayer from thee or from thy son?" inquired King Arthur.
	narrator	"Nay, lord, not from myself," said he, "but from him only, for I have thirteen other sons
	narrator	and all of them will fall to any labor that I put them to. But this one will do no such work for anything that
	narrator	I or my wife may do
	narrator	but is for ever shooting or fighting, and running to see knights and joustings, and torments me both night and day that he be made
	narrator	a knight."
	king arthur	What is thy name?" said the king to the young man.
	tor	My name is Tor," said he.
	narrator	Then the king, looking at him steadfastly, was well pleased with his face and figure, and with his look of nobleness and strength.
	narrator	Fetch all thy other sons before me,
	king arthur	Fetch all thy other sons before me,
	narrator	said the king to Aries.
	narrator	But when he brought them, none of them resembled Tor in size or shape or feature.
	narrator	Then the king knighted Tor, saying,
	king arthur	Be thou to thy life's end a good knight and a true, as I pray God thou mayest be; and if thou provest worthy
	king arthur	and of prowess, one day thou shalt be counted in the Round Table.
	narrator	Then turning to Merlin, Arthur said,
	king arthur	Prophesy now, O Merlin, shall Sir Tor become a worthy knight, or not?
	merlin	Yea, lord,
	merlin	so he ought to be, for he is the son of that King Pellinore whom thou hast met
	merlin	and proved to be one of the best knights living. He is no cowherd's son.
	narrator	Presently after came in King Pellinore, and when he saw Sir Tor he knew him for his son
	narrator	and was more pleased than words can tell to find him knighted by the king.
	narrator	And Pellinore did homage to King Arthur, and was gladly and graciously accepted of the king; and then was led by Merlin to a high
	narrator	seat at the Table Round
	narrator	near to the Perilous Seat.
	narrator	But Sir Gawain was full of anger at the honor done King Pellinore, and said to his brother Gaheris
	sir gawain	He slew our father, King Lot, therefore will I slay him.
	gaheris	Do it not yet,
	gaheris	wait till I also be a knight, then will I help ye in it: it is best ye suffer him to go at this time
	gaheris	and not trouble this high feast with blood-shed.
	sir gawain	As ye will, be it,
	narrator	said Sir Gawain.
	narrator	Then rose the king and spake to all the Table Round, and charged them to be ever true and noble knights
	narrator	to do neither outrage nor murder, nor any unjust violence, and always to flee treason; also by no means ever to be cruel
	narrator	but give mercy unto him that asked for mercy, upon pain of forfeiting the liberty of his court forevermore.
	narrator	Moreover, at all times, on pain of death, to give all succor unto ladies and young damsels; and lastly
	narrator	never to take part in any wrongful quarrel, for reward or payment.
	narrator	And to all this he swore them knight by knight.
	narrator	Then he ordained that, every year at Pentecost, they should all come before him, wheresoever he might appoint a place
	narrator	and give account of all their doings and adventures of the past twelve-month.
	narrator	And so, with prayer and blessing, and high words of cheer, he instituted the most noble order of the Round Table
	narrator	whereto the best and bravest knights in all the world sought afterwards to find admission.
	narrator	Then was the high feast made ready, and the king and queen sat side by side, before the whole assembly; and great and royal was
	narrator	the banquet and the pomp.
	narrator	And as they sat, each man in his place, Merlin went round and said,
	merlin	Sit still awhile, for ye shall see a strange and marvelous adventure.
	narrator	So as they sat, there suddenly came running through the hall, a white hart, with a white hound next after him
	narrator	and thirty couple of black running hounds, making full cry; and the hart made circuit of the Table Round
	narrator	and past the other tables; and suddenly the white hound flew upon him and bit him fiercely
	narrator	and tore out a piece from his haunch.
	narrator	Whereat the hart sprang suddenly with a great leap, and overthrew a knight sitting at the table
	narrator	who rose forthwith, and, taking up the hound, mounted, and rode fast away.
	narrator	But no sooner had he left, than there came in a lady, mounted on a white palfrey
	narrator	who cried out to the king,
	the lady	Lord, suffer me not to have this injury!--the hound is mine which that knight taketh.
	narrator	And as she spake, a knight rode in all armed, on a great horse, and suddenly took up the lady and rode away with her
	narrator	by force
	narrator	although she greatly cried and moaned.
	narrator	Then the king desired Sir Gawain, Sir Tor, and King Pellinore to mount and follow this adventure to the uttermost; and told Sir Gawain to
	narrator	bring back the hart
	narrator	Sir Tor the hound and knight, and King Pellinore the knight and the lady.
	narrator	So Sir Gawain rode forth at a swift pace, and with him Gaheris, his brother, for a squire.
	narrator	And as they went, they saw two knights fighting on horseback, and when they reached them they divided them and asked the reason of their
	narrator	quarrel.
	narrator	"We fight for a foolish matter," one replied,
	narrator	"for we be brethren; but there came by a white hart this way, chased by many hounds
	narrator	and thinking it was an adventure for the high feast of King Arthur, I would have followed it to have gained worship; whereat my younger
	narrator	brother here declared he was the better knight and would go after it instead
	narrator	and so we fight to prove which of us be the better knight."
	sir gawain	This is a foolish thing,
	sir gawain	Fight with all strangers, if ye will, but not brother with brother. Take my advice, set on against me
	sir gawain	and if ye yield to me, as I shall do my best to make ye, ye shall go to King Arthur and yield ye to
	sir gawain	his grace.
	narrator	"Sir knight," replied the brothers,
	narrator	"we are weary, and will do thy wish without encountering thee; but by whom shall we tell the king that we were sent?"
	sir gawain	By the knight that followeth the quest of the white hart,
	sir gawain	said Sir Gawain. "And now tell me your names, and let us part.
	narrator	"Sorlous and Brian of the Forest," they replied; and so they went their way to the king's court.
	narrator	Then Sir Gawain, still following his quest by the distant baying of the hounds, came to a great river
	narrator	and saw the hart swimming over and near to the further bank.
	narrator	And as he was about to plunge in and swim after, he saw a knight upon the other side
	narrator	who cried,
	allardin of the isles	Come not over here, Sir knight, after that hart, save thou wilt joust with me.
	sir gawain	I will not fail for that,
	sir gawain	said Sir Gawain; and swam his horse across the stream.
	narrator	Anon they got their spears, and ran against each other fiercely; and Sir Gawain smote the stranger off his horse
	narrator	and turning, bade him yield.
	allardin of the isles	Nay,
	allardin of the isles	replied he, "not so; for though ye have the better of me on horseback, I pray thee
	allardin of the isles	valiant knight, alight, and let us match together with our swords on foot.
	sir gawain	What is thy name?
	allardin of the isles	quoth Gawain.
	allardin of the isles	Allardin of the Isles,
	allardin of the isles	replied the stranger.
	narrator	Then they fell on each other; but soon Sir Gawain struck him through the helm, so deeply and so hard
	narrator	that all his brains were scattered, and Sir Allardin fell dead.
	gaheris	Ah, that was a mighty stroke for a young knight!
	narrator	Then did they turn again to follow the white hart, and let slip three couple of greyhounds after him; and at the last they chased
	narrator	him to a castle
	narrator	and there they overtook and slew him, in the chief courtyard.
	narrator	At that there rushed a knight forth from a chamber, with a drawn sword in his hand
	narrator	and slew two of the hounds before their eyes, and chased the others from the castle, crying
	narrator	"Oh, my white hart! alas, that thou art dead! for thee my sovereign lady gave to me
	narrator	and evil have I kept thee; but if I live, thy death shall be dear bought." Anon he went within and armed
	narrator	and came out fiercely, and met Sir Gawain face to face.
	sir gawain	Why have ye slain my hounds? they did but after their nature: and ye had better have taken vengeance on me than on the poor
	sir gawain	dumb beasts.
	narrator	"I will avenge me on thee, also," said the other, "ere thou depart this place."
	narrator	Then did they fight with each other savagely and madly, till the blood ran down to their feet.
	narrator	But at last Sir Gawain had the better, and felled the knight of the castle to the ground.
	narrator	Then he cried out for mercy, and yielded to Sir Gawain, and besought him as he was a knight and gentleman to save his life.
	sir gawain	Thou shalt die, for slaying my hounds.
	narrator	"I will make thee all amends within my power," replied the knight.
	narrator	But Sir Gawain would have no mercy, and unlaced his helm to strike his head off; and so blind was he with rage
	narrator	that he saw not where a lady ran out from her chamber and fell down upon his enemy.
	narrator	And making a fierce blow at him, he smote off by mischance the lady's head.
	gaheris	Alas! foully and shamefully have ye done--the shame shall never leave ye! Why give ye not your mercy unto them that ask it? a knight
	gaheris	without mercy is without worship also.
	narrator	Then Sir Gawain was sore amazed at that fair lady's death, and knew not what to do
	narrator	and said to the fallen knight, "Arise, for I will give thee mercy."
	narrator	"Nay, nay," said he, "I care not for thy mercy now, for thou hast slain my lady and my love--that of all earthly things I
	narrator	loved the best."
	sir gawain	I repent me sorely of it, for I meant to have struck thee: but now shalt thou go to King Arthur and tell him this
	sir gawain	adventure
	sir gawain	and how thou hast been overcome by the knight that followeth the quest of the white hart.
	narrator	"I care not whether I live or die, or where I go," replied the knight.
	narrator	So Sir Gawain sent him to the court to Camelot, making him bear one dead greyhound before and one behind him on his horse.
	sir gawain	Tell me thy name before we part.
	narrator	"My name is Athmore of the Marsh," he answered.
	narrator	Then went Sir Gawain into the castle, and prepared to sleep there and began to unarm; but Gaheris upbraided him
	narrator	saying
	gaheris	Will ye disarm in this strange country? bethink ye, ye must needs have many enemies about.
	narrator	No sooner had he spoken than there came out suddenly four knights, well armed, and assailed them hard
	narrator	saying to Sir Gawain
	knight	Thou new-made knight, how hast thou shamed thy knighthood! a knight without mercy is dishonored! Slayer of fair ladies
	knight	shame to thee evermore! Doubt not thou shalt thyself have need of mercy ere we leave thee.
	narrator	Then were the brothers in great jeopardy, and feared for their lives, for they were but two to four
	narrator	and weary with traveling; and one of the four knights shot Sir Gawain with a bolt, and hit him through the arm
	narrator	so that he could fight no more.
	narrator	But when there was nothing left for them but death, there came four ladies forth and prayed the four knights' mercy for the strangers.
	narrator	So they gave Sir Gawain and Gaheris their lives, and made them yield themselves prisoners.
	narrator	On the morrow, came one of the ladies to Sir Gawain, and talked with him, saying
	the lady	Sir knight, what cheer?
	sir gawain	Not good.
	the lady	It is your own default, sir, for ye have done a passing foul deed in slaying that fair damsel yesterday--and ever shall it be great
	the lady	shame to you. But ye be not of King Arthur's kin.
	sir gawain	Yea, truly am I; my name is Gawain, son of King Lot of Orkney, whom King Pellinore slew--and my mother
	sir gawain	Belisent, is half-sister to the king.
	narrator	When the lady heard that, she went and presently got leave for him to quit the castle; and they gave him the head of the
	narrator	white hart to take with him
	narrator	because it was in his quest; but made him also carry the dead lady with him--her head hung round his neck and her body lay
	narrator	before him on his horse's neck.
	narrator	So in that fashion he rode back to Camelot; and when the king and queen saw him
	narrator	and heard tell of his adventures, they were heavily displeased, and, by order of the queen, he was put upon his trial before a court
	narrator	of ladies--who judged him to be evermore
	narrator	for all his life, the knight of ladies' quarrels, and to fight always on their side, and never against any
	narrator	except he fought for one lady and his adversary for another; also they charged him never to refuse mercy to him that asked it
	narrator	and swore him to it on the Holy Gospels.
	narrator	Thus ended the adventure of the white hart.
	narrator	Meanwhile, Sir Tor had made him ready, and followed the knight who rode away with the hound.
	narrator	And as he went, there suddenly met him in the road a dwarf, who struck his horse so viciously upon the head with a great
	narrator	staff
	narrator	that he leaped backwards a spear's length.
	tor	Wherefore so smitest thou my horse, foul dwarf?
	the dwarf	Because thou shalt not pass this way,
	narrator	replied the dwarf,
	the dwarf	unless thou fight for it with yonder knights in those pavilions,
	the dwarf	pointing to two tents, where two great spears stood out, and two shields hung upon two trees hard by.
	sir tor	I may not tarry, for I am on a quest I needs must follow,
	the dwarf	Thou shalt not pass
	narrator	replied the dwarf, and therewith blew his horn
	narrator	Then rode out quickly at Sir Tor one armed on horseback, but Sir Tor was quick as he
	narrator	and riding at him bore him from his horse, and made him yield
	narrator	Directly after came another still more fiercely, but with a few great strokes and buffets Sir Tor unhorsed him also
	narrator	and sent them both to Camelot to King Arthur
	narrator	Then came the dwarf and begged Sir Tor to take him in his service
	the dwarf	for I will serve no more recreant knights
	tor	Take then a horse, and come with me
	the dwarf	Ride ye after the knight with the white hound? I can soon bring ye where he is
	narrator	So they rode through the forest till they came to two more tents
	narrator	And Sir Tor alighting, went into the first, and saw three damsels lie there, sleeping
	narrator	Then went he to the other, and found another lady also sleeping, and at her feet the white hound he sought for
	narrator	which instantly began to bay and bark so loudly, that the lady woke
	narrator	But Sir Tor had seized the hound and given it to the dwarf's charge
	the lady	What will ye do, Sir knight? Will ye take away my hound from me by force?
	tor	Yea, lady; for so I must, having the king's command; and I have followed it from King Arthur's court, at Camelot, to this place
	the lady	Well; ye will not go far before ye be ill handled, and will repent ye of the quest
	tor	I shall cheerfully abide whatsoever adventure cometh, by the grace of God
	narrator	and so mounted his horse and began to ride back on his way
	narrator	But night coming on, he turned aside to a hermitage that was in the forest, and there abode till the next day
	narrator	making but sorrowful cheer of such poor food as the hermit had to give him, and hearing a Mass devoutly before he left on the
	narrator	morrow
	narrator	And in the early morning, as he rode forth with the dwarf towards Camelot, he heard a knight call loudly after him
	knight	Turn, turn! Abide, Sir knight, and yield me up the hound thou tookest from my lady
	narrator	At which he turned, and saw a great and strong knight, armed full splendidly, riding down upon him fiercely through a glade of the forest
	narrator	Now Sir Tor was very ill provided, for he had but an old courser, which was as weak as himself
	narrator	because of the hermit's scanty fare
	narrator	He waited, nevertheless, for the strange knight to come, and at the first onset with their spears
	narrator	each unhorsed the other, and then fell to with their swords like two mad lions
	narrator	Then did they smite through one another's shields and helmets till the fragments flew on all sides
	narrator	and their blood ran out in streams; but yet they carved and rove through the thick armor of the hauberks
	narrator	and gave each other great and ghastly wounds
	narrator	But in the end, Sir Tor, finding the strange knight faint, doubled his strokes until he beat him to the earth
	narrator	Then did he bid him yield to his mercy
	abellius	That will I not, while my life lasteth and my soul is in my body, unless thou give me first the hound
	tor	I cannot, said Sir Tor; and will not, for it was my quest to bring again that hound and thee unto King Arthur
	tor	or otherwise to slay thee
	narrator	With that there came a damsel riding on a palfrey, as fast as she could drive, and cried out to Sir Tor with a loud
	narrator	voice
	damsel	I pray thee, for King Arthur's love, give me a gift
	tor	Ask, said Sir Tor; and I will give thee
	damsel	Gramercy, said the lady; I ask the head of this false knight Abellius, the most outrageous murderer that liveth
	tor	I repent me of the gift I promised; let him make thee amends for all his trespasses against thee
	damsel	He cannot make amends, for he hath slain my brother, a far better knight than he, and scorned to give him mercy
	damsel	though I kneeled for half an hour before him in the mire, to beg it, and though it was but by a chance they fought
	damsel	and for no former injury or quarrel
	damsel	I require my gift of thee as a true knight, or else will I shame thee in King Arthur's court; for this Abellius is the
	damsel	falsest knight alive
	damsel	and a murderer of many
	narrator	When Abellius heard this, he trembled greatly, and was sore afraid, and yielded to Sir Tor, and prayed his mercy
	abellius	I cannot now, Sir knight, lest I be false to my promise
	abellius	Ye would not take my mercy when I offered it; and now it is too late
	narrator	Therewith he unlaced his helmet, and took it off; but Abellius, in dismal fear, struggled to his feet
	narrator	and fled, until Sir Tor overtook him, and smote off his head entirely with one blow
	damsel	Now, sir, it is near night, I pray ye come and lodge at my castle hard by
	tor	I will, with a good will, said he, for both his horse and he had fared but poorly since they left Camelot
	narrator	So he went to the lady's castle and fared sumptuously, and saw her husband, an old knight
	narrator	who greatly thanked him for his service, and urged him oftentimes to come again
	narrator	On the morrow he departed, and reached Camelot by noon, where the king and queen rejoiced to see him
	narrator	and the king made him Earl; and Merlin prophesied that these adventures were but little to the things he should achieve hereafter
	narrator	Now while Sir Gawain and Sir Tor had fulfilled their quests, King Pellinore pursued the lady whom the knight had seized away from the wedding-feast
	narrator	And as he rode through the woods, he saw in a valley a fair young damsel sitting by a well-side
	narrator	and a wounded knight lying in her arms, and King Pellinore saluted her as he passed by
	narrator	As soon as she perceived him she cried out
	damsel	Help, help me, knight, for our Lord's sake!
	narrator	But Pellinore was far too eager in his quest to stay or turn, although she cried a hundred times to him for help; at which
	narrator	she prayed to heaven he might have such sore need before he died as she had now
	narrator	And presently thereafter her knight died in her arms; and she, for grief and love, slew herself with his sword
	narrator	But King Pellinore rode on till he met a poor man, and asked him had he seen a knight pass by that way
	narrator	leading by force a lady with him
	narrator	Yea, surely,
	man	and greatly did she moan and cry; but even now another knight is fighting with him to deliver the lady; ride on and thou shalt
	man	find them fighting still.
	narrator	At that King Pellinore rode swiftly on, and came to where he saw the two knights fighting
	narrator	hard by where two pavilions stood.
	narrator	And when he looked in one of them, he saw the lady that was his quest, and with her the two squires of the two
	narrator	knights who fought.
	king pellinore	Fair lady, ye must come with me unto King Arthur's court.
	squires	Yonder be two knights fighting for this lady; go part them, and get their consent to take her, ere thou touch her.
	king pellinore	Ye say well,
	narrator	and rode between the combatants, and asked them why they fought.
	knight	Sir knight, yon lady is my cousin, mine aunt's daughter, whom I met borne away against her will
	knight	by this knight here, with whom I therefore fight to free her.
	hantzlake of wentland	Sir knight, this lady got I, by my arms and prowess, at King Arthur's court to-day.
	king pellinore	That is false,
	narrator	ye stole the lady suddenly, and fled away with her, before any knight could arm to stay thee.
	narrator	But it is my service to take her back again.
	narrator	Neither of ye shall therefore have her; but if ye will fight for her, fight with me now and here.
	knights	Well,
	narrator	make ready, and we will assail thee with all our might.
	narrator	Then Sir Hantzlake ran King Pellinore's horse through with his sword, so that they might be all alike on foot.
	narrator	But King Pellinore at that was passing wroth, and ran upon Sir Hantzlake, with a cry,
	king pellinore	Keep well thy head!
	narrator	and gave him such a stroke upon the helm as clove him to the chin, so that he fell dead to the ground.
	narrator	When he saw that, the other knight refused to fight, and kneeling down said,
	knight	Take my cousin the lady with thee, as thy quest is; but as thou art a true knight
	knight	suffer her to come to neither shame nor harm.
	narrator	So the next day King Pellinore departed for Camelot, and took the lady with him; and as they rode in a valley full of rough
	narrator	stones
	narrator	the damsel's horse stumbled and threw her, so that her arms were sorely bruised and hurt.
	narrator	And as they rested in the forest for the pain to lessen, night came on, and there they were compelled to make their lodging.
	narrator	A little before midnight they heard the trotting of a horse.
	king pellinore	Be ye still,
	narrator	for now we may hear of some adventure,
	narrator	and therewith he armed her.
	narrator	Then he heard two knights meet and salute each other, in the dark; one riding from Camelot
	narrator	the other from the north.
	knight	What tidings at Camelot?
	knight	By my head,
	narrator	I have but just left there, and have espied King Arthur's court, and such a fellowship is there as never may be broke or overcome;
	narrator	for wellnigh all the chivalry of the world is there
	narrator	and all full loyal to the king, and now I ride back homewards to the north to tell our chiefs
	narrator	that they waste not their strength in wars against him.
	knight	As for all that,
	narrator	replied the other knight, I am but now from the north, and bear with me a remedy
	narrator	the deadliest poison that ever was heard tell of, and to Camelot will I with it; for there we have a friend close to the
	narrator	king
	narrator	and greatly cherished of him, who hath received gifts from us to poison him, as he hath promised soon to do.
	knight	Beware,
	narrator	said the first knight, of Merlin, for he knoweth all things, by the devil's craft.
	knight	I will not fear for that,
	narrator	replied the other, and so rode on his way.
	narrator	Anon King Pellinore and the lady passed on again; and when they came to the well at which the lady with the wounded knight had
	narrator	sat
	narrator	they found both knight and damsel utterly devoured by lions and wild beasts, all save the lady's head.
	narrator	When King Pellinore saw that, he wept bitterly, saying,
	king pellinore	Alas! I might have saved her life had I but tarried a few moments in my quest.
	the lady	Wherefore make so much sorrow now?
	king pellinore	I know not,
	narrator	but my heart grieveth greatly for this poor lady's death, so fair she was and young.
	narrator	Then he required a hermit to bury the remains of the bodies, and bare the lady's head with him to Camelot
	narrator	to the court.
	narrator	When he was arrived, he was sworn to tell the truth of his quest before the King and Queen
	narrator	and when he had entered the Queen somewhat upbraided him, saying,
	queen	Ye were much to blame that ye saved not that lady's life.
	king pellinore	Madam,
	narrator	I shall repent it all my life.
	merlin	Ay, king,
	narrator	quoth Merlin, who suddenly came in, "and so ye ought to do, for that lady was your daughter
	narrator	not seen since infancy by thee. And she was on her way to court, with a right good young knight
	narrator	who would have been her husband, but was slain by treachery of a felon knight, Lorraine le Savage
	narrator	as they came; and because thou wouldst not abide and help her, thy best friend shall fail thee in thine hour of greatest need
	narrator	for such is the penance ordained thee for that deed."
	narrator	Then did King Pellinore tell Merlin secretly of the treason he had heard in the forest, and Merlin by his craft so ordered that the
	narrator	knight who bare the poison was himself soon after slain by it
	narrator	and so King Arthur's life was saved.
