	narrator	XII
	narrator	THE ADVENTURES OF SIR TRISTRAM
	narrator	Again King Arthur held high festival at Caerleon, at Pentecost, and gathered round him all the fellowship of the Round Table
	narrator	and so, according to his custom, sat and waited till some adventure should arise, or some knight return to court whose deeds and perils might
	narrator	be told.
	narrator	Anon he saw Sir Lancelot and a crowd of knights coming through the doors and leading in their midst the mighty knight
	narrator	Sir Tristram.
	narrator	As soon as King Arthur saw him, he rose up and went through half the hall, and held out both his hands and cried
	king arthur	Right welcome to thee, good Sir Tristram, as welcome art thou as any knight that ever came before into this court. A long time have
	king arthur	I wished for thee amongst my fellowship.
	narrator	Then all the knights and barons rose up with one accord and came around, and cried out
	narrator	Welcome.
	narrator	Queen Guinevere came also, and many ladies with her, and all with one voice said the same.
	narrator	Then the king took Sir Tristram by the hand and led him to the Round Table and said
	king arthur	Welcome again for one of the best and gentlest knights in all the world; a chief in war
	king arthur	a chief in peace, a chief in field and forest, a chief in the ladies' chamber--right heartily welcome to this court
	king arthur	and mayest thou long abide in it.
	narrator	When he had so said he looked at every empty seat until he came to what had been Sir Marhaus'
	narrator	and there he found written in gold letters, "This is the seat of the noble knight, Sir Tristram." Whereat they made him
	narrator	with great cheer and gladness, a Fellow of the Round Table.
	narrator	Now the story of Sir Tristram was as follows:
	narrator	There was a king of Lyonesse, named Meliodas, married to the sister of King Mark of Cornwall
	narrator	a right fair lady and a good.
	narrator	And so it happened that King Meliodas hunting in the woods was taken by enchantment and made prisoner in a castle.
	narrator	When his wife Elizabeth heard it she was nigh mad with grief, and ran into the forest to seek out her lord.
	narrator	But after many days of wandering and sorrow she found no trace of him, and laid her down in a deep valley and prayed to
	narrator	meet her death.
	narrator	And so indeed she did, but ere she died she gave birth in the midst of all her sorrow to child
	narrator	a boy, and called him with her latest breath Tristram; for she said,
	narrator	His name shall show how sadly he hath come into this world.
	narrator	Therewith she gave up her ghost, and the gentlewoman who was with her took the child and wrapped it from the cold as well as
	narrator	she was able
	narrator	and lay down with it in her arms beneath the shadow of a tree hard by, expecting death to come to her in turn.
	narrator	But shortly after came a company of lords and barons seeking for the queen, and found the lady and the child and took them home.
	narrator	And on the next day came King Meliodas, whom Merlin had delivered, and when he heard of the queen's death his sorrow was greater than
	narrator	tongue can tell.
	narrator	And anon he buried her solemnly and nobly, and called the child Tristram as she had desired.
	narrator	Then for seven years King Meliodas mourned and took no comfort, and all that time young Tristram was well nourished; but in a while he
	narrator	wedded with the daughter of Howell
	narrator	King of Brittany, who, that her own children might enjoy the kingdom, cast about in her mind how she might destroy Tristram.
	narrator	So on a certain day she put poison in a silver cup, where Tristram and her children were together playing
	narrator	that when he was athirst he might drink of it and die.
	narrator	But so it happened that her own son saw the cup, and, thinking it must hold good drink
	narrator	he climbed and took it, and drank deeply of it, and suddenly thereafter burst and fell down dead.
	narrator	When the queen heard that, her grief was very great, but her anger and envy were fiercer than before
	narrator	and soon again she put more poison in the cup.
	narrator	And by chance one day her husband finding it when thirsty, took it up and was about to drink therefrom
	narrator	when, seeing him, she sprang up with a mighty cry and dashed it from his hands.
	narrator	At that King Meliodas, wondering greatly, called to mind the sudden death of his young child, and taking her fiercely by the hand he cried:
	king meliodas	Traitress, tell me what drink is in this cup or I will slay thee in a moment;
	narrator	and therewith pulling out his sword he swore by a great oath to slay her if she straightway told him not the truth.
	narrator	"Ah, mercy, lord," said she, and fell down at his feet; "mercy, and I will tell thee all."
	narrator	And then she told him of her plot to murder Tristram, so that her own sons might enjoy the kingdom.
	narrator	"The law shall judge thee," said the king.
	narrator	And so anon she was tried before the barons, and condemned to be burnt to death.
	narrator	But when the fire was made, and she brought out, came Tristram kneeling at his father's feet and besought of him a favor.
	narrator	"Whatsoever thou desirest I will give thee," said the king.
	narrator	"Give me the life, then, of the queen, my step-mother," said he.
	narrator	"Thou doest wrong to ask it," said Meliodas; "for she would have slain thee with her poisons if she could
	narrator	and chiefly for thy sake she ought to die."
	narrator	"Sir," said he, "as for that, I beseech thee of thy mercy to forgive it her, and for my part may God pardon her as
	narrator	I do; and so I pray thee grant me my boon
	narrator	and for God's sake hold thee to thy promise."
	narrator	"If it must be so," said the king, "take thou her life, for to thee I give it
	narrator	and go and do with her as thou wilt."
	narrator	Then went young Tristram to the fire and loosed the queen from all her bonds and delivered her from death.
	narrator	And after a great while by his good means the king again forgave and lived in peace with her
	narrator	though never more in the same lodgings.
	narrator	Anon was Tristram sent abroad to France in care of one named Governale.
	narrator	And there for seven years he learned the language of the land, and all knightly exercises and gentle crafts
	narrator	and especially was he foremost in music and in hunting, and was a harper beyond all others.
	narrator	And when at nineteen years of age he came back to his father, he was as lusty and strong of body and as noble of
	narrator	heart as ever man was seen.
	narrator	Now shortly after his return it befell that King Anguish of Ireland sent to King Mark of Cornwall for the tribute due to Ireland
	narrator	but which was now seven years behindhand.
	narrator	To whom King Mark sent answer, if he would have it he must send and fight for it
	narrator	and they would find a champion to fight against it.
	narrator	So King Anguish called for Sir Marhaus, his wife's brother, a good knight of the Round Table
	narrator	who lived then at his court, and sent him with a knightly retinue in six great ships to Cornwall.
	narrator	And, casting anchor by the castle of Tintagil, he sent up daily to King Mark for the tribute or the champion.
	narrator	But no knight there would venture to assail him, for his fame was very high in all the realm for strength and hardihood.
	narrator	Then made King Mark a proclamation throughout Cornwall, that if any knight would fight Sir Marhaus he should stand at the king's right hand forevermore
	narrator	and have great honor and riches all the rest of his days.
	narrator	Anon this news came to the land of Lyonesse, and when young Tristram heard it he was angry and ashamed to think no knight of
	narrator	Cornwall durst assail the Irish champion.
	narrator	"Alas," said he, "that I am not a knight, that I might match this Marhaus! I pray you give me leave
	narrator	sir, to depart to King Mark's court and beg him of his grace to make me knight."
	narrator	"Be ruled by thy own courage," said his father.
	narrator	So Tristram rode away forthwith to Tintagil to King Mark, and went up boldly to him and said
	narrator	"Sir, give me the order of knighthood and I will fight to the uttermost with Sir Marhaus of Ireland."
	narrator	"What are ye, and whence come ye?" said the king, seeing he was but a young man
	narrator	though strong and well made both in body and limb.
	narrator	"My name is Tristram," said he, "and I was born in the country of Lyonesse."
	narrator	"But know ye," said the king, "this Irish knight will fight with none who be not come of royal blood and near of kin to
	narrator	kings or queens
	narrator	as he himself is, for his sister is the Queen of Ireland."
	narrator	Then said Tristram, "Let him know that I am come both on my father's and my mother's side of blood as good as his
	narrator	for my father is King Meliodas and my mother was that Queen Elizabeth, thy sister, who died in the forest at my birth."
	narrator	When King Mark heard that he welcomed him with all his heart, and knighted him forthwith, and made him ready to go forth as soon
	narrator	as he would choose
	narrator	and armed him royally in armor covered with gold and silver.
	narrator	Then he sent Sir Marhaus word, "That a better man than he should fight with him, Sir Tristram of Lyonesse
	narrator	son of King Meliodas and of King Mark's own sister."
	narrator	So the battle was ordained to be fought in an island near Sir Marhaus' ships, and there Sir Tristram landed on the morrow
	narrator	with Governale alone attending him for squire, and him he sent back to the land when he had made himself ready.
	narrator	When Sir Marhaus and Sir Tristram were thus left alone, Sir Marhaus said, "Young knight Sir Tristram
	narrator	what doest thou here? I am full sorry for thy rashness, for ofttimes have I been assailed in vain
	narrator	and by the best knights of the world. Be warned in time, return to them that sent thee."
	narrator	"Fair knight, and well-proved knight," replied Sir Tristram, "be sure that I shall never quit this quarrel till one of us be overcome. For this
	narrator	cause have I been made knight
	narrator	and thou shalt know before we part that though as yet unproved, I am a king's son and firstborn of a queen. Moreover I have
	narrator	promised to deliver Cornwall from this ancient burden
	narrator	or to die. Also, thou shouldst have known, Sir Marhaus, that thy valor and thy might are but the better reasons why I should assail
	narrator	thee; for whether I win or lose I shall gain honor to have met so great a knight as thou art."
	narrator	Then they began the battle, and tilted at their hardest against each other, so that both knights and horses fell to the earth.
	narrator	But Sir Marhaus' spear smote Sir Tristram a great wound in the side.
	narrator	Then, springing up from their horses, they lashed together with their swords like two wild boars.
	narrator	And when they had stricken together a great while they left off strokes and lunged at one another's breasts and visors; but seeing this availed
	narrator	not they hurtled together again to bear each other down.
	narrator	Thus fought they more than half the day, till both were sorely spent and blood ran from them to the ground on every side.
	narrator	But by this time Sir Tristram remained fresher than Sir Marhaus and better winded, and with a mighty stroke he smote him such a buffet
	narrator	as cut through his helm into his brain-pan
	narrator	and there his sword stuck in so fast that thrice Sir Tristram pulled ere he could get it from his head.
	narrator	Then fell Sir Marhaus down upon his knees, and the edge of Sir Tristram's sword broke off into his brain-pan.
	narrator	And suddenly when he seemed dead, Sir Marhaus rose and threw his sword and shield away from him and ran and fled into his ship.
	narrator	And Tristram cried out after him, "Aha! Sir knight of the Round Table, dost thou withdraw thee from so young a knight? it is a
	narrator	shame to thee and all thy kin; I would rather have been hewn into a hundred pieces than have fled from thee."
	narrator	But Sir Marhaus answered nothing, and sorely groaning fled away.
	narrator	"Farewell, Sir knight, farewell," laughed Tristram, whose own voice now was hoarse and faint with loss of blood; "I have thy sword and shield in
	narrator	my safe keeping
	narrator	and will wear them in all places where I ride on my adventures, and before King Arthur and the Table Round."
	narrator	Then was Sir Marhaus taken back to Ireland by his company; and as soon as he arrived his wounds were searched
	narrator	and when they searched his head they found therein a piece of Tristram's sword; but all the skill of surgeons was in vain to move
	narrator	it out.
	narrator	So anon Sir Marhaus died.
	narrator	But the queen, his sister, took the piece of sword-blade and put it safely by, for she thought that some day it might help her
	narrator	to revenge her brother's death.
	narrator	Meanwhile, Sir Tristram, being sorely wounded, sat down softly on a little mound and bled passing fast; and in that evil case was found anon
	narrator	by Governale and King Mark's knights.
	narrator	Then they gently took him up and brought him in a barge back to the land, and lifted him into a bed within the castle
	narrator	and had his wounds dressed carefully.
	narrator	But for a great while he lay sick, and was likely to have died of the first stroke Sir Marhaus had given him with the
	narrator	spear
	narrator	for the point of it was poisoned.
	narrator	And, though the wisest surgeons and leeches--both men and women--came from every part, yet could he be by no means cured.
	narrator	At last came a wise lady, and said plainly that Sir Tristram never should be healed, until he went and stayed in that same country
	narrator	when the poison came.
	narrator	When this was understood, the king sent Sir Tristram in a fair and goodly ship to Ireland
	narrator	and by fortune he arrived fast by a castle where the king and queen were.
	narrator	And as the ship was being anchored, he sat upon his bed and harped a merry lay
	narrator	and made so sweet a music as was never equaled.
	narrator	When the king heard that the sweet harper was a wounded knight, he sent for him, and asked his name.
	speaker tristram	I am of the country of Lyonesse, and my name is Tramtrist;
	narrator	for he dared not tell his true name lest the vengeance of the queen should fall upon him for her brother's death.
	king anguish	Well,
	king anguish	thou art right welcome here, and shalt have all the help this land can give thee; but be not anxious if I am at times
	king anguish	cast down and sad
	king anguish	for but lately in Cornwall the best knight in the world, fighting for my cause, was slain; his name was Sir Marhaus
	king anguish	a knight of King Arthur's Round Table.
	narrator	And then he told Sir Tristram all the story of Sir Marhaus' battle, and Sir Tristram made pretense of great surprise and sorrow
	narrator	though he knew all far better than the king himself.
	narrator	Then was he put in charge of the king's daughter, La Belle Isault, to be healed of his wound
	narrator	and she was as fair and noble a lady as men's eyes might see.
	narrator	And so marvelously was she skilled in medicine, that in a few days she fully cured him; and in return Sir Tramtrist taught her the
	narrator	harp; so
	narrator	before long, they two began to love each other greatly.
	narrator	But at that time a heathen knight, Sir Palomedes, was in Ireland, and much cherished by the king and queen.
	narrator	He also loved mightily La Belle Isault, and never wearied of making her great gifts, and seeking for her favor
	narrator	and was ready even to be christened for her sake.
	narrator	Sir Tramtrist therefore hated him out of measure, and Sir Palomedes was full of rage and envy against Tramtrist.
	narrator	And so it befell that King Anguish proclaimed a great tournament to be held, the prize whereof should be a lady called the Lady of
	narrator	the Launds
	narrator	of near kindred to the king: and her the winner of the tournament should wed in three days afterwards
	narrator	and possess all her lands.
	narrator	When La Belle Isault told Sir Tristram of this tournament, he said,
	sir tristram	Fair lady! I am yet a feeble knight, and but for thee had been a dead man now: what wouldest thou I should do? Thou
	sir tristram	knowest well I may not joust.
	la belle isault	Ah, Tramtrist,
	la belle isault	why wilt thou not fight in this tournament? Sir Palomedes will be there, and will do his mightiest; and therefore be thou there
	la belle isault	I pray thee, or else he will be winner of the prize.
	sir tristram	Madam,
	sir tristram	I will go, and for thy sake will do my best; but let me go unknown to all men; and do thou
	sir tristram	I pray thee, keep my counsel, and help me to a disguise.
	narrator	So on the day of jousting came Sir Palomedes, with a black shield, and overthrew many knights.
	narrator	And all the people wondered at his prowess; for on the first day he put to the worse Sir Gawain
	narrator	Sir Gaheris, Sir Agravaine, Sir Key, and many more from far and near.
	narrator	And on the morrow he was conqueror again, and overthrew the king with a hundred knights and the King of Scotland.
	narrator	But presently Sir Tramtrist rode up to the lists, having been let out at a privy postern of the castle
	narrator	where none could see.
	narrator	La Belle Isault had dressed him in white armor and given him a white horse and shield
	narrator	and so he came suddenly into the field as it had been a bright angel.
	narrator	As soon as Sir Palomedes saw him he ran at him with a great spear in rest
	narrator	but Sir Tramtrist was ready, and at the first encounter hurled him to the ground.
	narrator	Then there arose a great cry that the knight with the black shield was overthrown.
	narrator	And Palomedes, sorely hurt and shamed, sought out a secret way and would have left the field; but Tramtrist watched him
	narrator	and rode after him, and bade him stay, for he had not yet done with him.
	narrator	Then did Sir Palomedes turn with fury, and lash at Sir Tramtrist with his sword; but at the first stroke Sir Tramtrist smote him to
	narrator	the earth
	narrator	and cried,
	sir tristram	Do now all my commands, or take thy death.
	narrator	Then he yielded to Sir Tristram's mercy, and promised to forsake La Belle Isault, and for twelve months to wear no arms or armor.
	narrator	And rising up, he cut his armor off him into shreds with rage and madness, and turned and left the field: and Sir Tramtrist also
	narrator	left the lists
	narrator	and rode back to the castle through the postern gate.
	narrator	Then was Sir Tramtrist long cherished by the King and Queen of Ireland, and ever with La Belle Isault.
	narrator	But on a certain day, while he was bathing, came the queen with La Belle Isault by chance into his chamber
	narrator	and saw his sword lie naked on the bed: anon she drew it from the scabbard and looked at it a long while
	narrator	and both thought it a passing fair sword; but within a foot and a half of the end there was a great piece broken out
	narrator	and while the queen was looking at the gap, she suddenly remembered the piece of sword-blade that was found in the brain-pan of her brother
	narrator	Sir Marhaus.
	narrator	Therewith she turned and cried, "By my faith, this is the felon knight who slew thy uncle!"
	narrator	And running to her chamber she sought in her casket for the piece of iron from Sir Marhaus' head and brought it back
	narrator	and fitted it in Tristram's sword; and surely did it fit therein as closely as it had been but yesterday broke out.
	narrator	Then the queen caught the sword up fiercely in her hand, and ran into the room where Sir Tristram was yet in his bath
	narrator	and making straight for him, had run him through the body, had not his squire, Sir Hebes
	narrator	got her in his arms, and pulled the sword away from her.
	narrator	Then ran she to the king, and fell upon her knees before him, saying,
	queen isault	Lord and husband, thou hast here in thy house that felon knight who slew my brother Marhaus!
	king mark	Who is it?
	queen isault	It is Sir Tramtrist!
	queen isault	whom Isault hath healed.
	king mark	Alas!
	king mark	I am full grieved thereat, for he is a good knight as ever I have seen in any field; but I charge thee leave thou
	king mark	him
	king mark	and let me deal with him.
	narrator	Then the king went to Sir Tramtrist's chamber and found him all armed and ready to mount his horse
	narrator	and said to him,
	king mark	Sir Tramtrist, it is not to prove me against thee I come, for it were shameful of thy host to seek thy life. Depart in
	king mark	peace
	king mark	but tell me first thy name, and whether thou slewest my brother, Sir Marhaus.
	narrator	Then Sir Tristram told him all the truth, and how he had hid his name, to be unknown in Ireland; and when he had ended
	narrator	the king declared he held him in no blame.
	king mark	Howbeit, I cannot for mine honor's sake retain thee at this court, for so I should displease my barons
	king mark	and my wife, and all her kin.
	sir tristram	Sir, I thank thee for the goodness thou hast shown me here, and for the great goodness my lady
	sir tristram	thy daughter, hath shown me; and it may chance to be more for thy advantage if I live than if I die; for wheresoever I
	sir tristram	may be
	sir tristram	I shall ever seek thy service, and shall be my lady thy daughter's servant in all places
	sir tristram	and her knight in right and wrong, and shall never fail to do for her as much as knight can do.
	narrator	Then Sir Tristram went to La Belle Isault, and took his leave of her.
	la belle isault	O gentle knight,
	la belle isault	full of grief am I at your departing, for never yet I saw a man to love so well.
	sir tristram	Madam,
	sir tristram	I promise faithfully that all my life I shall be your knight.
	narrator	Then Sir Tristram gave her a ring, and she gave him another, and after that he left her
	narrator	weeping and lamenting, and went among the barons, and openly took his leave of them all, saying
	sir tristram	Fair lords, it so befalleth that I now must depart hence; therefore, if there be any here whom I have offended or who is grieved
	sir tristram	with me
	sir tristram	let him now say it, and before I go I will amend it to the utmost of my power. And if there be but one
	sir tristram	who would speak shame of me behind my back
	sir tristram	let him say it now or never, and here is my body to prove it on--body against body.
	narrator	And all stood still and said no word, though some there were of the queen's kindred who would have assailed him had they dared.
	narrator	So Sir Tristram departed from Ireland and took the sea and came with a fair wind to Tintagil.
	narrator	And when the news came to King Mark that Sir Tristram was returned, healed of his wound
	narrator	he was passing glad, and so were all his barons.
	narrator	And when he had visited the king his uncle, he rode to his father, King Meliodas, and there had all the heartiest welcome that could
	narrator	be made him.
	narrator	And both the king and queen gave largely to him of their lands and goods.
	narrator	Anon he came again to King Mark's court, and there lived in great joy and pleasure, till within a while the king grew jealous of
	narrator	his fame
	narrator	and of the love and favor shown him by all damsels.
	narrator	And as long as King Mark lived, he never after loved Sir Tristram, though there was much fair speech between them.
	narrator	Then it befell upon a certain day that the good knight Sir Bleoberis de Ganis, brother to Sir Blamor de Ganis
	narrator	and nigh cousin to Sir Lancelot of the Lake, came to King Mark's court and asked of him a favor.
	narrator	And though the king marveled, seeing he was a man of great renown, and a knight of the Round Table
	narrator	he granted him all his asking.
	narrator	Then said Sir Bleoberis,
	sir bleoberis de ganis	I will have the fairest lady in your court, at my own choosing.
	king mark	I may not say thee nay,
	king mark	choose therefore, but take all the issues of thy choice.
	narrator	So when he had looked around, he chose the wife of Earl Segwarides, and took her by the hand
	narrator	and set her upon horseback behind his squire, and rode forth on his way.
	narrator	Presently thereafter came in the earl, and rode out straightway after him in rage.
	narrator	But all the ladies cried out shame upon Sir Tristram that he had not gone, and one rebuked him foully and called him coward knight
	narrator	that he would stand and see a lady forced away from his uncle's court.
	narrator	But Sir Tristram answered her,
	sir tristram	Fair lady, it is not my place to take part in this quarrel while her lord and husband is here to do it. Had he
	sir tristram	not been at this court
	sir tristram	peradventure I had been her champion. And if it so befall that he speed ill, then may it happen that I speak with that foul
	sir tristram	knight before he pass out of this realm.
	narrator	Anon ran in one of Sir Segwarides' squires, and told that his master was sore wounded, and at the point of death.
	narrator	When Sir Tristram heard that, he was soon armed and on his horse, and Governale, his servant
	narrator	followed him with shield and spear.
	narrator	And as he rode, he met his cousin Sir Andret, who had been commanded by King Mark to bring home to him two knights of
	narrator	King Arthur's court who roamed the country thereabouts seeking adventures.
	sir tristram	What tidings?
	sir andret	God help me, never worse,
	sir andret	for those I went to bring have beaten and defeated me, and set my message at naught.
	sir tristram	Fair cousin,
	sir tristram	ride ye on your way, perchance if I should meet them ye may be revenged.
	narrator	So Sir Andret rode into Cornwall, but Sir Tristram rode after the two knights who had misused him
	narrator	namely, Sir Sagramour le Desirous, and Sir Dodinas le Savage.
	narrator	And before long he saw them but a little way before him.
	governale	Sir, by my advice thou wilt leave them alone, for they be two well-proved knights of Arthur's court.
	sir tristram	Shall I not therefore rather meet them!
	narrator	and, riding swiftly after them, he called to them to stop, and asked them whence they came
	narrator	and whither they were going, and what they were doing in those marches.
	sir sagramour le desirous	Fair knight, be ye a knight of Cornwall?
	sir tristram	Wherefore askest thou that?
	sir sagramour le desirous	Truly, because it is full seldom seen, that Cornish knights are valiant with their arms as with their tongues. It is but two hours since
	sir sagramour le desirous	there met us such a Cornish knight
	sir sagramour le desirous	who spoke great words with might and prowess, but anon, with little mastery, he was laid on earth
	sir sagramour le desirous	as I trow wilt thou be also.
	sir tristram	Fair lords, it may chance I be a better man than he; but, be that as it may
	sir tristram	he was my cousin, and for his sake I will assail ye both; one Cornish knight against ye two.
	narrator	When Sir Dodinas le Savage heard this speech, he caught at his spear and said,
	sir dodinas le savage	Sir knight, keep well thyself;
	narrator	and then they parted and came together as it had been thunder, and Sir Dodinas' spear split asunder; but Sir Tristram smote him with so
	narrator	full a stroke as hurled him over his horse's crupper
	narrator	and nearly brake his neck.
	narrator	Sir Sagramour, seeing his fellow's fall, marveled who this new knight be, and dressed his spear, and came against Sir Tristram as a whirlwind; but
	narrator	Sir Tristram smote him a mighty buffet
	narrator	and rolled him with his horse down on the ground; and in the falling he brake his thigh.
	narrator	Then, looking at them both as they lay groveling on the grass, Sir Tristram said,
	sir tristram	Fair knights, will ye joust any more? Are there no bigger knights in King Arthur's court? Will ye soon again speak shame of Cornish knights?
	sir sagramour le desirous	Thou hast defeated us, in truth, and on the faith of knighthood I require thee tell us thy right name?
	sir tristram	Ye charge me by a great thing, and I will answer ye.
	narrator	And when they heard his name the two knights were right glad that they had met Sir Tristram
	narrator	for his deeds were known through all the land, and they prayed him to abide in their company.
	sir tristram	Nay, I must find a fellow-knight of yours, Sir Bleoberis de Ganis, whom I seek.
	narrator	God speed you well,
	sir tristram	said the two knights; and Sir Tristram rode away.
	narrator	Soon he saw before him in a valley Sir Bleoberis with Sir Segwarides' wife riding behind his squire upon a palfrey.
	narrator	At that he cried out aloud,
	sir tristram	Abide, Sir knight of King Arthur's court, bring back again that lady or deliver her to me.
	sir bleoberis de ganis	I will not, for I dread no Cornish knight.
	sir tristram	Why, may not a Cornish knight do well as any other? This day, but three miles back
	sir tristram	two knights of thy own court met me, and found one Cornish knight enough for both before we parted.
	sir bleoberis de ganis	What were their names?
	sir tristram	Sir Sagramour le Desirous and Sir Dodinas le Savage.
	sir bleoberis de ganis	Ah, hast thou then met with them? By my faith, they were two good knights and men of worship
	sir bleoberis de ganis	and if thou hast beat both thou must needs be a good knight; but for all that
	sir bleoberis de ganis	thou shalt beat me also ere thou hast this lady.
	sir tristram	Defend thee, then,
	narrator	cried out Sir Tristram, and came upon him swiftly with his spear in rest.
	narrator	But Sir Bleoberis was as swift as he, and each bore down the other, horse and all
	narrator	on to the earth.
	narrator	Then they sprang clear of their horses, and lashed together full eagerly and mightily with their swords
	narrator	tracing and traversing on the right hand and on the left more than two hours, and sometimes rushing together with such fury that they both
	narrator	lay groveling on the ground.
	narrator	At last Sir Bleoberis started back and said,
	sir bleoberis de ganis	Now, gentle knight, hold hard awhile, and let us speak together.
	sir tristram	Say on,
	narrator	said Sir Tristram, "and I will answer thee."
	sir bleoberis de ganis	Sir, I would know thy name, and court, and country.
	sir tristram	I have no shame to tell them. I am King Meliodas' son, and my mother was sister to King Mark
	sir tristram	from whose court I now come. My name is Sir Tristram de Lyonesse.
	sir bleoberis de ganis	Truly, I am right glad to hear it, for thou art he that slew Sir Marhaus hand-to-hand
	sir bleoberis de ganis	fighting for the Cornish tribute; and overcame Sir Palomedes at the great Irish tournament, where also thou didst overthrow Sir Gawain and his nine companions.
	sir tristram	I am that knight, and now I pray thee tell me thy name.
	sir bleoberis de ganis	I am Sir Bleoberis de Ganis, cousin of Sir Lancelot of the Lake, one of the best knights in all the world,
	sir tristram	Thou sayest truth, for Sir Lancelot, as all men know, is peerless in courtesy and knighthood, and for the great love I bear to his
	sir tristram	name I will not willingly fight more with thee his kinsman.
	sir bleoberis de ganis	In good faith, sir, I am as loth to fight thee more; but since thou hast followed me to win this lady
	sir bleoberis de ganis	I proffer thee kindness, courtesy, and gentleness; this lady shall be free to go with which of us she pleaseth best.
	sir tristram	I am content, for I doubt not she will come to me.
	narrator	That shalt thou shortly prove,
	narrator	said he, and called his squire, and set the lady in the midst between them, who forthwith walked to Sir Bleoberis and elected to abide
	narrator	with him.
	narrator	Which, when Sir Tristram saw, he was in wondrous anger with her, and felt that he could scarce for shame return to King Mark's court.
	sir bleoberis de ganis	Hearken to me, good knight, Sir Tristram, because King Mark gave me free choice of any gift
	sir bleoberis de ganis	and because this lady chose to go with me, I took her; but now I have fulfilled my quest and my adventure
	sir bleoberis de ganis	and for thy sake she shall be sent back to her husband at the abbey where he lieth.
	narrator	So Sir Tristram rode back to Tintagil, and Sir Bleoberis to the abbey where Sir Segwarides lay wounded
	narrator	and there delivered up his lady, and departed as a noble knight.
	narrator	After this adventure Sir Tristram abode still at his uncle's court, till in the envy of his heart King Mark devised a plan to be
	narrator	rid of him.
	narrator	So on a certain day he desired him to depart again for Ireland, and there demand La Belle Isault on his behalf
	narrator	to be his queen--forever had Sir Tristram praised her beauty and her goodness, till King Mark desired to wed her for himself.
	narrator	Moreover, he believed his nephew surely would be slain by the queen's kindred if he once were found again in Ireland.
	narrator	But Sir Tristram, scorning fear, made ready to depart, and took with him the noblest knights that could be found
	narrator	arrayed in the richest fashion.
	narrator	And when they were come to Ireland, upon a certain day Sir Tristram gave his uncle's message
	narrator	and King Anguish consented thereto.
	narrator	But when La Belle Isault was told the tidings she was very sorrowful and loth--yet made she ready to set forth with Sir Tristram
	narrator	and took with her Dame Bragwaine, her chief gentlewoman.
	narrator	Then the queen gave Dame Bragwaine, and Governale, Sir Tristram's servant, a little flask, and charged them that La Belle Isault and King Mark should
	narrator	both drink of it on their marriage day
	narrator	and then should they surely love each other all their lives.
	narrator	Anon, Sir Tristram and Isault, with a great company, took the sea and departed.
	narrator	And so it chanced that one day sitting in their cabin they were athirst, and saw a little flask of gold which seemed to hold
	narrator	good wine.
	sir tristram	Fair lady, this looketh to be the best of wines, and your maid, Dame Bragwaine, and my servant, Governale, have kept it for themselves.
	narrator	Thereat they both laughed merrily, and drank each after other from the flask, and never before had they tasted any wine which seemed so good
	narrator	and sweet.
	narrator	But by the time they had finished drinking they loved each other so well that their love nevermore might leave them for weal or woe.
	narrator	And thus it came to pass that though Sir Tristram might never wed La Belle Isault, he did the mightiest deeds of arms for her
	narrator	sake only all his life.
	narrator	Then they sailed onwards till they came to a castle called Pluere, where they would have rested.
	narrator	But anon there ran forth a great company and took them prisoners.
	narrator	And when they were in prison, Sir Tristram asked a knight and lady whom they found therein wherefore they were so shamefully dealt with;
	sir tristram	for, said he, it was never the custom of any place of honor that I ever came unto to seize a knight and lady asking
	sir tristram	shelter and thrust them into prison
	sir tristram	and a full evil and discourteous custom is it.
	knight	Sir, said the knight, know ye not that this is called the Castle Pluere, or the weeping castle
	knight	and that it is an ancient custom here that whatsoever knight abideth in it must needs fight the lord of it
	knight	Sir Brewnor, and he that is the weakest shall lose his head.
	knight	And if the lady he hath with him be less fair than the lord's wife, she shall lose her head; but if she be fairer
	knight	then must the lady of the castle lose her head.
	sir tristram	Now Heaven help me, said Sir Tristram, but this is a foul and shameful custom.
	sir tristram	Yet have I one advantage, for my lady is the fairest that doth live in all the world
	sir tristram	so that I nothing fear for her; and as for me, I will full gladly fight for my own head in a fair field.
	knight	Look ye be up betimes to-morrow, and make you ready and your lady.
	narrator	And on the morrow came Sir Brewnor to Sir Tristram, and put him and Isault forth out of prison
	narrator	and brought him a horse and armor, and bade him make ready, for all the commons and estates of that lordship waited in the field
	narrator	to see and judge the battle.
	narrator	Then Sir Brewnor, holding his lady by the hand, all muffled, came forth, and Sir Tristram went to meet him with La Belle Isault beside
	narrator	him
	narrator	muffled also.
	sir brewnor	Sir knight, if thy lady be fairer than mine, with thy sword smite off my lady's head; but if my lady be fairer than thine
	sir brewnor	with my sword I will smite off thy lady's head.
	sir brewnor	And if I overcome thee thy lady shall be mine, and thou shalt lose thy head.
	sir tristram	Sir knight, replied Sir Tristram, this is a right foul and felon custom, and rather than my lady shall lose her head will I lose
	sir tristram	my own.
	sir brewnor	Nay, said Sir Brewnor, but the ladies shall be now compared together and judgment shall be had.
	sir tristram	I consent not, cried Sir Tristram, for who is here that will give rightful judgment?
	sir tristram	Yet doubt not that my lady is far fairer than thine own, and that will I prove and make good.
	narrator	Therewith Sir Tristram lifted up the veil from off La Belle Isault, and stood beside her with his naked sword drawn in his hand.
	narrator	Then Sir Brewnor unmuffled his lady and did in like manner.
	narrator	But when he saw La Belle Isault he knew that none could be so fair, and all there present gave their judgment so.
	sir tristram	Because thou and thy lady have long used this evil custom, and have slain many good knights and ladies
	sir tristram	it were a just thing to destroy thee both.
	sir brewnor	In good sooth, thy lady is fairer than mine, and of all women I never saw any so fair. Therefore
	sir brewnor	slay my lady if thou wilt, and I doubt not but I shall slay thee and have thine.
	sir tristram	Thou shalt win her, as dearly as ever knight won lady; and because of thy own judgment and of the evil custom that thy lady
	sir tristram	hath consented to
	sir tristram	I will slay her as thou sayest.
	narrator	And therewithal Sir Tristram went to him and took his lady from him, and smote off her head at a stroke.
	sir brewnor	Now take thy horse,
	narrator	cried out Sir Brewnor, "for since I have lost my lady I will win thine and have thy life."
	narrator	So they took their horses and came together as fast as they could fly, and Sir Tristram lightly smote Sir Brewnor from his horse.
	narrator	But he rose right quickly, and when Sir Tristram came again he thrust his horse through both the shoulders
	narrator	so that it reeled and fell.
	narrator	But Sir Tristram was light and nimble, and voided his horse, and rose up and dressed his shield before him
	narrator	though meanwhile, ere he could draw out his sword, Sir Brewnor gave him three or four grievous strokes.
	narrator	Then they rushed furiously together like two wild boars, and fought hurtling and hewing here and there for nigh two hours
	narrator	and wounded each other full sorely.
	narrator	Then at the last Sir Brewnor rushed upon Sir Tristram and took him in his arms to throw him
	narrator	for he trusted greatly in his strength.
	narrator	But Sir Tristram was at that time called the strongest and biggest knight of the world; for he was bigger than Sir Lancelot
	narrator	though Sir Lancelot was better breathed.
	narrator	So anon he thrust Sir Brewnor groveling to the earth, and then unlaced his helm and struck off his head.
	narrator	Then all they that belonged to the castle came and did him homage and fealty, and prayed him to abide there for a season and
	narrator	put an end to that foul custom.
	narrator	But within a while he departed and came to Cornwall, and there King Mark was forthwith wedded to La Belle Isault with great joy and
	narrator	splendor.
	narrator	And Sir Tristram had high honor, and ever lodged at the king's court.
	narrator	But for all he had done him such services King Mark hated him, and on a certain day he set two knights to fall upon
	narrator	him as he rode in the forest.
	narrator	But Sir Tristram lightly smote one's head off, and sorely wounded the other, and made him bear his fellow's body to the king.
	narrator	At that the king dissembled and hid from Sir Tristram that the knights were sent by him; yet more than ever he hated him in
	narrator	secret
	narrator	and sought to slay him.
	narrator	So on a certain day, by the assent of Sir Andret, a false knight, and forty other knights
	narrator	Sir Tristram was taken prisoner in his sleep and carried to a chapel on the rocks above the sea to be cast down.
	narrator	But as they were about to cast him in, suddenly he brake his bonds asunder, and rushing at Sir Andret
	narrator	took his sword and smote him down therewith.
	narrator	Then, leaping down the rocks where none could follow, he escaped them.
	narrator	But one shot after him and wounded him full sorely with a poisoned arrow in the arm.
	narrator	Anon, his servant Governale, with Sir Lambegus, sought him and found him safe among the rocks, and told him that King Mark had banished him
	narrator	and all his followers to avenge Sir Andret's death.
	narrator	So they took ship and came to Brittany.
	narrator	Now Sir Tristram, suffering great anguish from his wound, was told to seek Isoude, the daughter of the King of Brittany
	narrator	for she alone could cure such wounds.
	narrator	Wherefore he went to King Howell's court, and said,
	sir tristram	Lord, I am come into this country to have help from thy daughter, for men tell me none but she may help me.
	narrator	And Isoude gladly offering to do her best, within a month he was made whole.
	narrator	While he abode still at that court, an earl named Grip made war upon King Howell, and besieged him; and Sir Kay Hedius
	narrator	the king's son, went forth against him, but was beaten in battle and sore wounded.
	narrator	Then the king praying Sir Tristram for his help, he took with him such knights as he could find
	narrator	and on the morrow, in another battle, did such deeds of arms that all the land spake of him.
	narrator	For there he slew the earl with his own hands, and more than a hundred knights besides.
	narrator	When he came back King Howell met him, and saluted him with every honor and rejoicing that could be thought of
	narrator	and took him in his arms, and said,
	king howell	Sir Tristram, all my kingdom will I resign to thee.
	sir tristram	Nay,
	narrator	answered he, "God forbid, for truly am I beholden to you forever for your daughter's sake."
	narrator	Then the king prayed him to take Isoude in marriage, with a great dower of lands and castles.
	narrator	To this Sir Tristram presently consenting anon they were wedded at the court.
	narrator	But within a while Sir Tristram greatly longed to see Cornwall, and Sir Kay Hedius desired to go with him.
	narrator	So they took ship; but as soon as they were at sea the wind blew them upon the coast of North Wales
	narrator	nigh to Castle Perilous, hard by a forest wherein were many strange adventures ofttimes to be met.
	narrator	Then said Sir Tristram to Sir Kay Hedius,
	sir tristram	Let us prove some of them ere we depart.
	narrator	So they took their horses and rode forth.
	narrator	When they had ridden a mile or more, Sir Tristram spied a goodly knight before him well armed
	narrator	who sat by a clear fountain with a strong horse near him, tied to an oak-tree.
	narrator	"Fair sir," said he, when they came near,
	sir tristram	ye seem to be a knight errant by your arms and harness, therefore make ready now to joust with one of us, or both.
	narrator	Thereat the knight spake not, but took his shield and buckled it round his neck, and leaping on his horse caught a spear from his
	narrator	squire's hand.
	narrator	Then said Sir Kay Hedius to Sir Tristram,
	sir kay hedius	Let me assay him.
	sir tristram	Do thy best.
	narrator	So the two knights met, and Sir Kay Hedius fell sorely wounded in the breast.
	sir tristram	Thou hast well jousted,
	narrator	cried Sir Tristram to the knight; "now make ready for me!"
	narrator	"I am ready," answered he, and encountered him, and smote him so heavily that he fell down from his horse.
	narrator	Whereat, being ashamed, he put his shield before him, and drew his sword, crying to the strange knight to do likewise.
	narrator	Then they fought on foot for well nigh two hours, till they were both weary.
	sir tristram	In all my life I never met a knight so strong and well-breathed as ye be. It were a pity we should further hurt each
	sir tristram	other. Hold thy hand
	sir tristram	fair knight, and tell me thy name.
	sir lamoracke	That will I, if thou wilt tell me thine.
	sir tristram	My name, said he, is Sir Tristram of Lyonesse.
	sir lamoracke	And mine, Sir Lamoracke of Gaul.
	narrator	Then both cried out together, "Well met;" and Sir Lamoracke said, "Sir for your great renown, I will that ye have all the worship of
	narrator	this battle
	narrator	and therefore will I yield me unto you." And therewith he took his sword by the point to yield him.
	sir tristram	Nay, ye shall not do so, for well I know ye do it of courtesy, and not of dread." And therewith he offered his sword
	sir tristram	to Sir Lamoracke
	sir tristram	saying, "Sir, as an overcome knight, I yield me unto you as unto the man of noblest powers I have ever met with.
	sir lamoracke	Hold, let us now swear together nevermore to fight against each other.
	narrator	Then did they swear as he said.
	narrator	Then Sir Tristram returned to Sir Kay Hedius, and when he was whole of his wounds, they departed together in a ship
	narrator	and landed on the coast of Cornwall.
	narrator	And when they came ashore, Sir Tristram eagerly sought news of La Belle Isault.
	narrator	And one told him in mistake that she was dead.
	narrator	Whereat, for sore and grievous sorrow, he fell down in a swoon, and so lay for three days and nights.
	narrator	When he awoke therefrom he was crazed, and ran into the forest and abode there like a wild man many days; whereby he waxed lean
	narrator	and weak of body
	narrator	and would have died, but that a hermit laid some meat beside him as he slept.
	narrator	Now in that forest was a giant named Tauleas, who, for fear of Tristram, had hid himself within a castle
	narrator	but when they told him he was mad, came forth and went at large again.
	narrator	And on a certain day he saw a knight of Cornwall, named Sir Dinaunt, pass by with a lady
	narrator	and when he had alighted by a well to rest, the giant leaped out from his ambush
	narrator	and took him by the throat to slay him.
	narrator	But Sir Tristram, as he wandered through the forest, came upon them as they struggled; and when the knight cried out for help
	narrator	he rushed upon the giant, and taking up Sir Dinaunt's sword, struck off therewith the giant's head
	narrator	and straightway disappeared among the trees.
	narrator	Anon, Sir Dinaunt took the head of Tauleas, and bare it with him to the court of King Mark
	narrator	whither he was bound, and told of his adventures.
	narrator	"Where had ye this adventure?" said King Mark.
	sir dinaunt	At a fair fountain in thy forest," answered he.
	king mark	I would fain see that wild man," said the king.
	narrator	So within a day or two he commanded his knights to a great hunting in the forest.
	narrator	And when the king came to the well, he saw a wild man lying there asleep, having a sword beside him; but he knew not
	narrator	that it was Sir Tristram.
	narrator	Then he blew his horn, and summoned all his knights to take him gently up and bear him to the court.
	narrator	And when they came thereto they bathed and washed him, and brought him somewhat to his right mind.
	narrator	Now La Belle Isault knew not that Sir Tristram was in Cornwall; but when she heard that a wild man had been found in the
	narrator	forest
	narrator	she came to see him.
	narrator	And so sorely was he changed, she knew him not.
	narrator	"Yet," said she to Dame Bragwaine, "in good faith I seem to have beheld him ofttimes before."
	narrator	As she thus spoke a little hound, which Sir Tristram had given her when she first came to Cornwall
	narrator	and which was ever with her, saw Sir Tristram lying there, and leapt upon him, licking his hands and face
	narrator	and whined and barked for joy.
	la belle isault	Alas, cried out La Belle Isault, "it is my own true knight, Sir Tristram.
	narrator	And at her voice Sir Tristram's senses wholly came again, and wellnigh he wept for joy to see his lady living.
	narrator	But never would the hound depart from Tristram; and when King Mark and other knights came up to see him
	narrator	it sat upon his body and bayed at all who came too near.
	narrator	Then one of the knights said, "Surely this is Sir Tristram; I see it by the hound."
	king mark	Nay, said the king, "it cannot be," and asked Sir Tristram on his faith who he was.
	sir tristram	My name, said he, is Sir Tristram of Lyonesse, and now ye may do what ye list with me.
	king mark	It repents me that ye are recovered," said the king, and sought to make his barons slay him. But most of them would not assent
	king mark	thereto
	king mark	and counseled him instead to banish Tristram for ten years again from Cornwall, for returning without orders from the king. So he was sworn to
	king mark	depart forthwith.
	narrator	And as he went towards the ship a knight of King Arthur, named Sir Dinadan, who sought him
	narrator	came and said, "Fair knight, ere that you pass out of this country, I pray you joust with me!"
	sir tristram	With a good will," said he.
	narrator	Then they ran together, and Sir Tristram lightly smote him from his horse.
	narrator	Anon he prayed Sir Tristram's leave to bear him company, and when he had consented they rode together to the ship.
	narrator	Then was Sir Tristram full of bitterness of heart, and said to all the knights who took him to the shore
	narrator	"Greet well King Mark and all mine enemies from me, and tell them I will come again when I may. Well am I now rewarded
	narrator	for slaying Sir Marhaus
	narrator	and delivering this kingdom from its bondage, and for the perils wherewithal I brought La Belle Isault from Ireland to the king
	narrator	and rescued her at the Castle Pluere, and for the slaying of the giant Tauleas, and all the other deeds that I have done for
	narrator	Cornwall and King Mark." Thus angrily and passing bitterly he spake
	narrator	and went his way.
	narrator	And after sailing awhile the ship stayed at a landing-place upon the coast of Wales; and there Sir Tristram and Sir Dinadan alighted
	narrator	and on the shore they met two knights, Sir Ector and Sir Bors.
	narrator	And Sir Ector encountered with Sir Dinadan and smote him to the ground; but Sir Bors would not encounter with Sir Tristram
	sir bors	For,
	narrator	said he, "no Cornish knights are men of worship."
	narrator	Thereat Sir Tristram was full wroth, but presently there met them two more knights, Sir Bleoberis and Sir Driant;
	narrator	and Sir Bleoberis proffered to joust with Sir Tristram, who shortly smote him down.
	sir bors	I had not thought,
	narrator	cried out Sir Bors, "that any Cornish knight could do so valiantly."
	narrator	Then Sir Tristram and Sir Dinadan departed, and rode into a forest, and as they rode a damsel met them
	narrator	who for Sir Lancelot's sake was seeking any noble knights to rescue him.
	narrator	For Queen Morgan le Fay, who hated him, had ordered thirty men-at-arms to lie in ambush for him as he passed
	narrator	with the intent to kill him.
	narrator	So the damsel prayed them to rescue him.
	sir tristram	Bring me to that place, fair damsel.
	sir dinadan	It is not possible for us to meet with thirty knights! I will take no part in such a hardihood
	sir dinadan	for to match one or two or three knights is enough; but to match fifteen I will never assay.
	sir tristram	For shame,
	narrator	replied Sir Tristram, "do but your part."
	sir dinadan	That will I not,
	narrator	said he; "wherefore, I pray ye, lend me your shield, for it is of Cornwall, and because men of that country are deemed cowards
	narrator	ye are but little troubled as ye ride with knights to joust with."
	sir tristram	Nay,
	narrator	said Sir Tristram, "I will never give my shield up for her sake who gave it me; but if thou wilt not stand by me
	narrator	to-day I will surely slay thee; for I ask no more of thee than to fight one knight
	narrator	and if thy heart will not serve thee that much, thou shalt stand by and look on me and them."
	sir dinadan	Would God that I had never met with ye!
	narrator	cried Sir Dinadan; "but I promise to look on and do all that I may to save myself."
	narrator	Anon they came to where the thirty knights lay waiting, and Sir Tristram rushed upon them, saying
	sir tristram	Here is one who fights for love of Lancelot!
	narrator	Then slew he two of them at the first onset with his spear, and ten more swiftly after with his sword.
	narrator	At that Sir Dinadan took courage, and assailed the others with him, till they turned and fled.
	narrator	But Sir Tristram and Sir Dinadan rode on till nightfall, and meeting with a shepherd, asked him if he knew of any lodging thereabouts.
	shepherd	Truly, fair lords,
	narrator	said he, "there is good lodging in a castle hard by, but it is a custom there that none shall lodge therein save ye first
	narrator	joust with two knights
	narrator	and as soon as ye be within, ye shall find your match."
	sir dinadan	That is an evil lodging,
	narrator	said Sir Dinadan; "lodge where ye will, I will not lodge there."
	sir tristram	Shame on thee!
	narrator	said Sir Tristram; "art thou a knight at all?"
	narrator	Then he required him on his knighthood to go with him, and they rode together to the castle.
	narrator	As soon as they were near, two knights came out and ran full speed against them; but both of them they overthrew
	narrator	and went within the castle, and had noble cheer.
	narrator	Now, when they were unarmed and ready to take rest, there came to the castle-gate two knights
	narrator	Sir Palomedes and Sir Gaheris, and desired the custom of the castle.
	sir dinadan	I would far rather rest than fight,
	narrator	said Sir Dinadan.
	sir tristram	That may not be,
	narrator	replied Sir Tristram, "for we must needs defend the custom of the castle, seeing we have overcome its lords; therefore
	narrator	make ready."
	sir dinadan	Alas that I ever came into your company,
	narrator	said Sir Dinadan.
	narrator	So they made ready, and Sir Gaheris encountered Sir Tristram and fell before him; but Sir Palomedes overthrew Sir Dinadan.
	narrator	Then would all fight on foot save Sir Dinadan, for he was sorely bruised and frighted by his fall.
	narrator	And when Sir Tristram prayed him to fight,
	sir dinadan	I will not,
	narrator	answered he, "for I was wounded by those thirty knights with whom we fought this morning; and as to you
	narrator	ye are in truth like one gone mad, and who would cast himself away! There be but two knights in the world so mad
	narrator	and the other is Sir Lancelot, with whom I once rode forth, who kept me evermore at battling so that for a quarter of a
	narrator	year thereafter I lay in my bed. Heaven defend me again from either of your fellowships!"
	sir tristram	Well,
	narrator	said Sir Tristram, "if it must be, I will fight them both."
	narrator	Therewith he drew his sword and assailed Sir Palomedes and Sir Gaheris together; but Sir Palomedes said
	sir palomedes	Nay, but it is a shame for two to fight with one.
	narrator	So he bade Sir Gaheris stand by, and he and Sir Tristram fought long together; but in the end Sir Tristram drave him backward
	narrator	whereat Sir Gaheris and Sir Dinadan with one accord sundered them.
	narrator	Then Sir Tristram prayed the two knights to lodge there; but Dinadan departed and rode away into a priory hard by
	narrator	and there he lodged that night.
	narrator	And on the morrow came Sir Tristram to the priory to find him, and seeing him so weary that he could not ride
	narrator	he left him, and departed.
	narrator	At that same priory was lodged Sir Pellinore, who asked Sir Dinadan Sir Tristram's name, but could not learn it
	narrator	for Sir Tristram had charged that he should remain unknown.
	sir pellinore	Since ye will not tell it me, I will ride after him and find it myself.
	sir dinadan	Beware, Sir knight,
	narrator	said Sir Dinadan, "ye will repent it if ye follow him."
	narrator	But Sir Pellinore straightway mounted and overtook him, and cried to him to joust; whereat Sir Tristram forthwith turned and smote him down; and wounded
	narrator	him full sorely in the shoulder.
	narrator	On the day after, Sir Tristram met a herald, who told him of a tournament proclaimed between King Carados of Scotland
	narrator	and the King of North Wales, to be held at the Maiden's Castle.
	narrator	Now King Carados sought Sir Lancelot to fight there on his side, and the King of North Wales sought Sir Tristram.
	narrator	And Sir Tristram purposed to be there.
	narrator	So as he rode, he met Sir Key, the seneschal, and Sir Sagramour, and Sir Key proffered to joust with him.
	narrator	But he refused, desiring to keep himself unwearied for the tourney.
	sir key	Sir knight of Cornwall, joust with me, or yield as recreant.
	narrator	When Sir Tristram heard that, he fiercely turned and set his spear in rest, and spurred his horse towards him.
	narrator	But when Sir Key saw him so madly coming on, he in his turn refused, whereat Sir Tristram called him coward
	narrator	till for shame he was compelled to meet him.
	narrator	Then Sir Tristram lightly smote him down, and rode away.
	narrator	But Sir Sagramour pursued him, crying loudly to joust with him also.
	narrator	So Sir Tristram turned and quickly overthrew him likewise, and departed.
	narrator	Anon a damsel met him as he rode, and told him of a knight adventurous who did great harm thereby
	narrator	and prayed him for his help.
	narrator	But as he went with her he met Sir Gawain, who knew the damsel for a maiden of Queen Morgan le Fay.
	narrator	Knowing, therefore, that she needs must have evil plots against Sir Tristram, Sir Gawain demanded of him courteously whither he went.
	sir tristram	I know not whither, save as this damsel leadeth me.
	sir gawain	Sir, ye shall not ride with her, for she and her lady never yet did good to any;
	narrator	and, drawing his sword, he said to the damsel, "Tell me now straightway for what cause thou leadest this knight
	narrator	or else shalt thou die; for I know of old thy lady's treason."
	damsel	Mercy, Sir Gawain, and I will tell thee all.
	narrator	Then she told him that Queen Morgan had ordained thirty fair damsels to seek out Sir Lancelot and Sir Tristram
	narrator	and by their wiles persuade them to her castle, where she had thirty knights in wait to slay them.
	sir gawain	Oh shame! That ever such foul treason should be wrought by a queen, and a king's sister.
	sir gawain	Sir knight, if ye will stand with me, we will together prove the malice of these thirty knights.
	sir tristram	I will not fail you, for but few days since I had to do with thirty knights of that same queen
	sir tristram	and trust we may win honor as lightly now as then.
	narrator	So they rode together, and when they came to the castle, Sir Gawain cried aloud, "Queen Morgan le Fay
	narrator	send out thy knights that we may fight with them."
	narrator	Then the queen urged her knights to issue forth, but they durst not, for they well knew Sir Tristram
	narrator	and feared him greatly.
	narrator	So Sir Tristram and Sir Gawain went on their way, and as they rode they saw a knight
	narrator	named Sir Brewse-without-pity, chasing a lady, with intent to slay her.
	narrator	Then Sir Gawain prayed Sir Tristram to hold still and let him assail that knight.
	narrator	So he rode up between Sir Brewse and the lady, and cried, "False knight, turn thee to me and leave that lady."
	narrator	Then Sir Brewse turned and set his spear in rest, and rushed against Sir Gawain and overthrew him
	narrator	and rode his horse upon him as he lay, which when Sir Tristram saw, he cried, "Forbear that villainy," and galloped at him.
	narrator	But when Sir Brewse saw by the shield it was Sir Tristram, he turned and fled.
	narrator	And though Sir Tristram followed swiftly after him, yet he was so well horsed that he escaped.
	narrator	Anon Sir Tristram and Sir Gawain came nigh the Maiden's Castle, and there an old knight named Sir Pellonnes gave them lodging.
	narrator	And Sir Persides, the son of Sir Pellonnes, a good knight, came out to welcome them.
	narrator	And, as they stood talking at a bay window of the castle, they saw a goodly knight ride by on a black horse
	narrator	and carrying a black shield.
	sir tristram	What knight is that?
	sir persides	One of the best knights in all the world.
	sir tristram	Is he Sir Lancelot?
	sir persides	Nay, it is Sir Palomedes, who is yet unchristened.
	narrator	Within a while one came and told them that a knight with a black shield had smitten down thirteen knights.
	sir tristram	Let us go and see this jousting.
	narrator	So they armed themselves and went down.
	narrator	And when Sir Palomedes saw Sir Persides, he sent a squire to him and proffered him to joust.
	narrator	So they jousted, and Sir Persides was overthrown.
	narrator	Then Sir Tristram made ready to joust, but ere he had his spear in rest, Sir Palomedes took him at advantage
	narrator	and struck him on the shield so that he fell.
	narrator	At that Sir Tristram was wroth out of measure and sore ashamed, wherefore he sent a squire and prayed Sir Palomedes to joust once again.
	narrator	But he would not, saying, "Tell thy master to revenge himself to-morrow at the Maiden's Castle, where he shall see me again."
	narrator	So on the morrow Sir Tristram commanded his servant to give him a black shield with no cognizance thereon
	narrator	and he and Sir Persides rode into the tournament and joined King Carados' side.
	narrator	Then the knights of the King of North Wales came forth, and there was a great fighting and breaking of spears
	narrator	and overthrow of men and horses.
	narrator	Now King Arthur sat above in a high gallery to see the tourney and give the judgment
	narrator	and Sir Lancelot sat beside him.
	narrator	Then came against Sir Tristram and Sir Persides, two knights with them of North Wales, Sir Bleoberis and Sir Gaheris; and Sir Persides was smitten
	narrator	down and nigh slain
	narrator	for four horsemen rode over him.
	narrator	But Sir Tristram rode against Sir Gaheris and smote him from his horse, and when Sir Bleoberis next encountered him
	narrator	he overthrew him also.
	narrator	Anon they horsed themselves again, and with them came Sir Dinadan, whom Sir Tristram forthwith smote so sorely
	narrator	that he reeled off his saddle.
	sir dinadan	Ah! Sir knight, I know ye better than ye deem, and promise nevermore to come against ye.
	narrator	Then rode Sir Bleoberis at him the second time, and had a buffet that felled him to the earth.
	narrator	And soon thereafter the king commanded to cease for that day, and all men marveled who Sir Tristram was
	narrator	for the prize of the first day was given him in the name of the Knight of the Black Shield.
	narrator	Now Sir Palomedes was on the side of the King of North Wales, but knew not Sir Tristram again.
	narrator	And, when he saw his marvelous deeds, he sent to ask his name.
	sir tristram	As to that, he shall not know at this time, but tell him he shall know when I have broken two spears upon him
	sir tristram	for I am the knight he smote down yesterday, and whatever side he taketh, I will take the other.
	narrator	So when they told him that Sir Palomedes would be on King Carados' side--for he was kindred to King Arthur--"Then will I be on the
	narrator	King of North Wales' side," said he
	narrator	"but else would I be on my lord King Arthur's."
	narrator	Then on the morrow, when King Arthur was come, the heralds blew unto the tourney.
	narrator	And King Carados jousted with the King of a Hundred Knights and fell before him, and then came in King Arthur's knights and bare back
	narrator	those of North Wales.
	narrator	But anon Sir Tristram came to aid them and bare back the battle, and fought so mightily that none could stand against him
	narrator	for he smote down on the right and on the left, so that all the knights and common people shouted his praise.
	king arthur	Since I bare arms, never saw I a knight do more marvelous deeds.
	narrator	Then the King of the Hundred Knights and those of North Wales set upon twenty knights who were of Sir Lancelot's kin
	narrator	who fought all together, none failing the others.
	narrator	When Sir Tristram beheld their nobleness and valor, he marveled much.
	sir tristram	Well may he be valiant and full of prowess, who hath such noble knights for kindred.
	narrator	So, when he had looked on them awhile, he thought it shame to see two hundred men assailing twenty
	narrator	and riding to the King of a Hundred Knights, he said, "I pray thee, Sir king, leave your fighting with those twenty knights
	narrator	for ye be too many and they be too few. For ye shall gain no honor if ye win
	narrator	and that I see verily ye will not do unless ye slay them; but if ye will not stay
	narrator	I will ride with them and help them."
	king of a hundred knights	Nay, ye shall not do so; for full gladly I will do your courtesy,
	narrator	and with that he withdrew his knights.
	narrator	Then Sir Tristram rode his way into the forest, that no man might know him.
	narrator	And King Arthur caused the heralds to blow that the tourney should end that day, and he gave the King of North Wales the prize
	narrator	because Sir Tristram was on his side.
	narrator	And in all the field there was such a cry that the sound thereof was heard two miles away--"The knight with the black shield hath
	narrator	won the field."
	king arthur	Alas! where is that knight? it is shame to let him thus escape us.
	king arthur	Then he comforted his knights, and said, "Be not dismayed, my friends, howbeit ye have lost the day; be of good cheer; to-morrow I myself
	king arthur	will be in the field
	king arthur	and fare with you." So they all rested that night.
	narrator	And on the morrow the heralds blew unto the field.
	narrator	So the King of North Wales and the King of a Hundred Knights encountered with King Carados and the King of Ireland
	narrator	and overthrew them.
	narrator	With that came King Arthur, and did mighty deeds of arms, and overthrew the King of North Wales and his fellows
	narrator	and put twenty valiant knights to the worse.
	narrator	Anon came in Sir Palomedes, and made great fight upon King Arthur's side.
	narrator	But Sir Tristram rode furiously against him, and Sir Palomedes was thrown from his horse.
	king arthur	Knight of the Black Shield, keep thyself.
	narrator	And as he spake he came upon him, and smote him from his saddle to the ground
	narrator	and so passed on to other knights.
	narrator	Then Sir Palomedes having now another horse rushed at Sir Tristram, as he was on foot, thinking to run over him.
	narrator	But he was aware of him, and stepped aside, and grasped Sir Palomedes by the arms, and pulled him off his horse.
	narrator	Then they rushed together with their swords, and many stood still to gaze on them.
	narrator	And Sir Tristram smote Sir Palomedes with three mighty strokes upon the helm, crying at each stroke
	narrator	"Take this for Sir Tristram's sake," and with that Sir Palomedes fell to the earth.
	narrator	Anon the King of North Wales brought Sir Tristram another horse, and Sir Palomedes found one also.
	narrator	Then did they joust again with passing rage, for both by now were like mad lions.
	narrator	But Sir Tristram avoided his spear, and seized Sir Palomedes by the neck, and pulled him from his saddle
	narrator	and bore him onward ten spears' length, and so let him fall.
	narrator	Then King Arthur drew forth his sword and smote the spear asunder, and gave Sir Tristram two or three sore strokes ere he could get
	narrator	at his own sword.
	narrator	But when he had it in his hand he mightily assailed the king.
	narrator	With that eleven knights of Lancelot's kin went forth against him, but he smote them all down to the earth
	narrator	so that men marveled at his deeds.
	narrator	And the cry was now so great that Sir Lancelot got a spear in his hand,
	sir lancelot	Knight with the black shield, make ready.
	narrator	When Sir Tristram heard him he leveled his spear,
	narrator	and both stooping their heads, they ran together mightily, as it had been thunder.
	narrator	And Sir Tristram's spear brake short, but Sir Lancelot struck him with a deep wound in the side and broke his spear
	narrator	yet overthrew him not.
	narrator	Therewith Sir Tristram, smarting at his wound, drew forth his sword, and rushing at Sir Lancelot, gave him mighty strokes upon the helm
	narrator	so that the sparks flew from it, and Sir Lancelot stooped his head down to the saddle-bow.
	narrator	But then Sir Tristram turned and left the field, for he felt his wound so grievous that he deemed he should soon die.
	narrator	Then did Sir Lancelot hold the field against all comers, and put the King of North Wales and his party to the worse.
	narrator	And because he was the last knight in the field the prize was given him.
	narrator	But he refused to take it, and when the cry was raised, "Sir Lancelot hath won the day," he cried out
	sir lancelot	Nay, but Sir Tristram is the victor, for he first began and last endured, and so hath he done each day.
	narrator	And all men honored Lancelot more for his knightly words than if he had taken the prize.
	narrator	This was the tournament ended, and King Arthur departed to Caerleon, for the Whitsun feast was now nigh come
	narrator	and all the knights adventurous went their ways.
	narrator	And many sought Sir Tristram in the forest whither he had gone, and at last Sir Lancelot found him
	narrator	and brought him to King Arthur's court, as hath been told already.
