	narrator	One fine day Pooh had stumped up to the top of the Forest to see if his friend Christopher Robin was interested in Bears at all.
	narrator	At breakfast that morning (a simple meal of marmalade spread lightly over a honeycomb or two) he had suddenly thought of a new song.
	narrator	It began like this:
	pooh	Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear.
	narrator	When he had got as far as this, he scratched his head, and thought to himself "That's a very good start for a song,
	narrator	but what about the second line?" He tried singing "Ho," two or three times, but it didn't seem to help.
	narrator	'Perhaps it would be better,' he thought, 'if I sang Hi for the life of a Bear.'
	narrator	So he sang it ... but it wasn't. 'Very well, then,' he said, 'I shall sing that first line twice,
	narrator	and perhaps if I sing it very quickly, I shall find myself singing the third and fourth lines before I have time to think of them,
	narrator	and that will be a Good Song. Now then:'
	pooh	Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear! Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear!
	pooh	I don't much mind if it rains or snows, Cos I've got a lot of honey on my nice new nose,
	pooh	I don't much care if it snows or thaws, Cos I've got a lot of honey on my nice clean paws!
	pooh	Sing Ho! for a Bear! Sing Ho! for a Pooh! And I'll have a little something in an hour or two!
	narrator	He was so pleased with this song that he sang it all the way to the top of the Forest,
	narrator	"and if I go on singing it much longer," he thought, "it will be time for the little something,
	narrator	and then the last line won't be true." So he turned it into a hum instead.
	narrator	Christopher Robin was sitting outside his door, putting on his Big Boots. As soon as he saw the Big Boots,
	narrator	Pooh knew that an Adventure was going to happen, and he brushed the honey off his nose with the back of his paw,
	narrator	and spruced himself up as well as he could, so as to look Ready for Anything.
	pooh	Good-morning, Christopher Robin.
	christopher robin	Hallo, Pooh Bear. I can't get this boot on.
	pooh	That's bad.
	christopher robin	Do you think you could very kindly lean against me, 'cos I keep pulling so hard that I fall over backwards.
	pooh	I don't think I've ever been on one of those.
	narrator	Pooh sat down, dug his feet into the ground, and pushed hard against Christopher Robin's back,
	narrator	and Christopher Robin pushed hard against his, and pulled and pulled at his boot until he had got it on.
	pooh	And that's that. What do we do next?
	christopher robin	We are all going on an Expedition.
	narrator	said Christopher Robin, as he got up and brushed himself.
	christopher robin	Thank you, Pooh.
	pooh	Going on an Expotition?
	christopher robin	Expedition, silly old Bear. It's got an 'x' in it.
	pooh	Oh!
	narrator	said Pooh. But he didn't really.
	christopher robin	We're going to discover the North Pole.
	pooh	Oh! What _is_ the North Pole?
	christopher robin	It's just a thing you discover.
	narrator	said Christopher Robin carelessly, not being quite sure himself.
	pooh	Oh! I see. Are bears any good at discovering it?
	christopher robin	Of course they are. And Rabbit and Kanga and all of you. It's an Expedition. That's what an Expedition means.
	christopher robin	A long line of everybody. You'd better tell the others to get ready, while I see if my gun's all right.
	christopher robin	And we must all bring Provisions.
	pooh	Bring what?
	christopher robin	Things to eat.
	pooh	Oh!
	narrator	said Pooh happily.
	pooh	I thought you said Provisions. I'll go and tell them.
	narrator	And he stumped off. The first person he met was Rabbit.
	pooh	Hallo, Rabbit, is that you?
	rabbit	Let's pretend it isn't, and see what happens.
	pooh	I've got a message for you.
	rabbit	I'll give it to him.
	pooh	We're all going on an Expotition with Christopher Robin!
	rabbit	What is it when we're on it?
	pooh	A sort of boat, I think.
	rabbit	Oh! that sort.
	pooh	Yes. And we're going to discover a Pole or something. Or was it a Mole? Anyhow we're going to discover it.
	rabbit	We are, are we?
	pooh	Yes. And we've got to bring Pro--things to eat with us. In case we want to eat them.
	pooh	Now I'm going down to Piglet's. Tell Kanga, will you?
	narrator	He left Rabbit and hurried down to Piglet's house. The Piglet was sitting on the ground at the door of his house blowing happily at a dandelion,
	narrator	and wondering whether it would be this year, next year, sometime or never. He had just discovered that it would be never,
	narrator	and was trying to remember what "_it_" was, and hoping it wasn't anything nice, when Pooh came up.
	pooh	Oh! Piglet, we're going on an Expotition, all of us, with things to eat. To discover something.
	piglet	To discover what?
	pooh	Oh! just something.
	piglet	Nothing fierce?
	pooh	Christopher Robin didn't say anything about fierce. He just said it had an 'x'.
	piglet	It isn't their necks I mind, It's their teeth. But if Christopher Robin is coming I don't mind anything.
	narrator	In a little while they were all ready at the top of the Forest, and the Expotition started.
	narrator	First came Christopher Robin and Rabbit, then Piglet and Pooh; then Kanga, with Roo in her pocket,
	narrator	and Owl; then Eeyore; and, at the end, in a long line, all Rabbit's friends-and-relations.
	rabbit	I didn't ask them, explained Rabbit carelessly. They just came. They always do. They can march at the end,
	rabbit	after Eeyore.
	eeyore	What I say, is that it's unsettling. I didn't want to come on this Expo--what Pooh said.
	eeyore	I only came to oblige. But here I am; and if I am the end of the Expo--what we're talking about--then let me _be_ the end.
	eeyore	But if, every time I want to sit down for a little rest, I have to brush away half a dozen of Rabbit's smaller friends-and-relations first,
	eeyore	then this isn't an Expo--whatever it is--at all, it's simply a Confused Noise. That's what _I_ say.
	owl	I see what Eeyore means. If you ask me----
	eeyore	I'm not asking anybody. I'm just telling everybody. We can look for the North Pole, or we can play 'Here we go gathering Nuts and May'
	eeyore	with the end part of an ant's nest. It's all the same to me.
	narrator	There was a shout from the top of the line.
	christopher robin	Come on!
	pooh	Come on!
	piglet	Come on!
	owl	Come on!
	rabbit	We're starting. I must go.
	narrator	And he hurried off to the front of the Expotition with Christopher Robin.
	eeyore	All right. We're going. Only Don't Blame Me.
	narrator	So off they all went to discover the Pole. And as they walked, they chattered to each other of this and that,
	narrator	all except Pooh, who was making up a song.
	pooh	This is the first verse,
	piglet	First verse of what?
	pooh	My song.
	piglet	What song?
	pooh	This one.
	piglet	Which one?
	pooh	Well, if you listen, Piglet, you'll hear it.
	piglet	How do you know I'm not listening?
	narrator	Pooh couldn't answer that one, so he began to sing. They all went off to discover the Pole,
	narrator	Owl and Piglet and Rabbit and all; It's a Thing you Discover, as I've been tole By Owl and Piglet and Rabbit and all.
	narrator	Eeyore, Christopher Robin and Pooh And Rabbit's relations all went too-- And where the Pole was none of them knew....
	narrator	Sing Hey! for Owl and Rabbit and all!
	christopher robin	Hush!
	narrator	said Christopher Robin turning round to Pooh, "we're just coming to a Dangerous Place."
	pooh	Hush!
	narrator	said Pooh turning round quickly to Piglet.
	piglet	Hush!
	narrator	said Piglet to Kanga.
	kanga	Hush!
	narrator	said Kanga to Owl, while Roo said "Hush!" several times to himself very quietly.
	owl	Hush!
	narrator	said Owl to Eeyore.
	eeyore	_Hush!_
	narrator	said Eeyore in a terrible voice to all Rabbit's friends-and-relations, and "Hush!" they said hastily to each other all down the line,
	narrator	until it got to the last one of all. And the last and smallest friend-and-relation was so upset to find that the whole Expotition was saying "Hush!"
	narrator	to _him_, that he buried himself head downwards in a crack in the ground, and stayed there for two days until the danger was over,
	narrator	and then went home in a great hurry, and lived quietly with his Aunt ever-afterwards. His name was Alexander Beetle.
	narrator	They had come to a stream which twisted and tumbled between high rocky banks, and Christopher Robin saw at once how dangerous it was.
	christopher robin	It's just the place,
	narrator	he explained, "for an Ambush."
	pooh	What sort of bush?
	narrator	whispered Pooh to Piglet. "A gorse-bush?"
	owl	My dear Pooh,
	narrator	said Owl in his superior way, "don't you know what an Ambush is?"
	piglet	Owl,
	narrator	said Piglet, looking round at him severely, "Pooh's whisper was a perfectly private whisper, and there was no need----"
	owl	An Ambush,
	narrator	said Owl, "is a sort of Surprise."
	pooh	So is a gorse-bush sometimes,
	narrator	said Pooh.
	piglet	An Ambush, as I was about to explain to Pooh,
	narrator	said Piglet, "is a sort of Surprise."
	owl	If people jump out at you suddenly, that's an Ambush,
	narrator	said Owl.
	piglet	It's an Ambush, Pooh, when people jump at you suddenly,
	narrator	explained Piglet.
	pooh	Pooh, who now knew what an Ambush was, said that a gorse-bush had sprung at him suddenly one day when he fell off a tree,
	pooh	and he had taken six days to get all the prickles out of himself.
	owl	We are not _talking_ about gorse-bushes,
	narrator	said Owl a little crossly.
	pooh	I am,
	narrator	said Pooh. They were climbing very cautiously up the stream now, going from rock to rock,
	narrator	and after they had gone a little way they came to a place where the banks widened out at each side,
	narrator	so that on each side of the water there was a level strip of grass on which they could sit down and rest.
	narrator	As soon as he saw this, Christopher Robin called "Halt!" and they all sat down and rested.
	christopher robin	I think,
	narrator	said Christopher Robin, "that we ought to eat all our Provisions now, so that we shan't have so much to carry."
	pooh	Eat all our what?
	piglet	All that we've brought,
	narrator	said Piglet, getting to work.
	pooh	That's a good idea,
	narrator	said Pooh, and he got to work too.
	christopher robin	Have you all got something?
	narrator	asked Christopher Robin with his mouth full.
	eeyore	All except me,
	narrator	said Eeyore. "As Usual." He looked round at them in his melancholy way. "I suppose none of you are sitting on a thistle by any chance?"
	pooh	I believe I am,
	narrator	said Pooh. "Ow!" He got up, and looked behind him. "Yes, I was. I thought so."
	eeyore	Thank you, Pooh. If you've quite finished with it.
	narrator	He moved across to Pooh's place, and began to eat.
	eeyore	It don't do them any Good, you know, sitting on them,
	narrator	he went on, as he looked up munching. "Takes all the Life out of them. Remember that another time,
	narrator	all of you. A little Consideration, a little Thought for Others, makes all the difference." As soon as he had finished his lunch Christopher Robin whispered to Rabbit,
	narrator	and Rabbit said "Yes, yes, of course," and they walked a little way up the stream together.
	christopher robin	I didn't want the others to hear,
	narrator	said Christopher Robin.
	rabbit	Quite so,
	narrator	said Rabbit, looking important.
	christopher robin	It's--I wondered--It's only--Rabbit, I suppose _you_ don't know, What does the North Pole _look_ like?
	rabbit	Well,
	narrator	said Rabbit, stroking his whiskers. "Now you're asking me."
	christopher robin	I did know once, only I've sort of forgotten,
	narrator	said Christopher Robin carelessly.
	rabbit	It's a funny thing,
	narrator	said Rabbit, "but I've sort of forgotten too, although I did know _once_."
	christopher robin	I suppose it's just a pole stuck in the ground?
	rabbit	Sure to be a pole,
	narrator	said Rabbit, "because of calling it a pole, and if it's a pole, well, I should think it would be sticking in the ground,
	narrator	shouldn't you, because there'd be nowhere else to stick it."
	christopher robin	Yes, that's what I thought.
	rabbit	The only thing,
	narrator	said Rabbit, "is, _where is it sticking_?"
	christopher robin	That's what we're looking for,
	narrator	said Christopher Robin. They went back to the others. Piglet was lying on his back, sleeping peacefully.
	narrator	Roo was washing his face and paws in the stream, while Kanga explained to everybody proudly that this was the first time he had ever washed his face himself,
	narrator	and Owl was telling Kanga an Interesting Anecdote full of long words like Encyclopædia and Rhododendron to which Kanga wasn't listening.
	eeyore	I don't hold with all this washing, This modern Behind-the-ears nonsense. What do _you_ think, Pooh?
	pooh	Well, _I_ think----
	narrator	But we shall never know what Pooh thought, for there came a sudden squeak from Roo,
	narrator	a splash, and a loud cry of alarm from Kanga.
	eeyore	So much for _washing_.
	rabbit	Roo's fallen in!
	narrator	cried Rabbit, and he and Christopher Robin came rushing down to the rescue.
	roo	Look at me swimming!
	narrator	squeaked Roo from the middle of his pool, and was hurried down a waterfall into the next pool.
	kanga	Are you all right, Roo dear?
	roo	Yes! Look at me sw----
	narrator	and down he went over the next waterfall into another pool. Everybody was doing something to help.
	narrator	Piglet, wide awake suddenly, was jumping up and down and making "Oo, I say" noises; Owl was explaining that in a case of Sudden and Temporary Immersion the Important Thing was to keep the Head Above Water; Kanga was jumping along the bank,
	narrator	saying "Are you _sure_ you're all right, Roo dear?" to which Roo, from whatever pool he was in at the moment,
	narrator	was answering "Look at me swimming!" Eeyore had turned round and hung his tail over the first pool into which Roo fell,
	narrator	and with his back to the accident was grumbling quietly to himself, and saying, "All this washing; but catch on to my tail,
	narrator	little Roo, and you'll be all right"; and, Christopher Robin and Rabbit came hurrying past Eeyore,
	narrator	and were calling out to the others in front of them.
	christopher robin	All right, Roo, I'm coming.
	rabbit	Get something across the stream lower down, some of you fellows,
	narrator	called Rabbit. But Pooh was getting something. Two pools below Roo he was standing with a long pole in his paws,
	narrator	and Kanga came up and took one end of it, and between them they held it across the lower part of the pool; and Roo,
	narrator	still bubbling proudly, "Look at me swimming," drifted up against it, and climbed out.
	roo	Did you see me swimming?
	narrator	squeaked Roo excitedly, while Kanga scolded him and rubbed him down.
	roo	Pooh, did you see me swimming? That's called swimming, what I was doing. Rabbit, did you see what I was doing?
	roo	Swimming. Hallo, Piglet! I say, Piglet! What do you think I was doing! Swimming! Christopher Robin,
	roo	did you see me----
	narrator	But Christopher Robin wasn't listening. He was looking at Pooh.
	christopher robin	Pooh, where did you find that pole?
	pooh	I just found it, I thought it ought to be useful. I just picked it up.
	christopher robin	Pooh, the Expedition is over. You have found the North Pole!
	pooh	Oh!
	narrator	Eeyore was sitting with his tail in the water when they all got back to him.
	eeyore	Tell Roo to be quick, somebody, My tail's getting cold. I don't want to mention it,
	eeyore	but I just mention it. I don't want to complain but there it is. My tail's cold.
	roo	Here I am!
	eeyore	Oh, there you are.
	roo	Did you see me swimming?
	eeyore	As I expected, Lost all feeling. Numbed it. That's what it's done. Numbed it. Well, as long as nobody minds,
	eeyore	I suppose it's all right.
	christopher robin	Poor old Eeyore. I'll dry it for you,
	narrator	said Christopher Robin, and he took out his handkerchief and rubbed it up.
	eeyore	Thank you, Christopher Robin. You're the only one who seems to understand about tails. They don't think--that's what the matter with some of these others.
	eeyore	They've no imagination. A tail isn't a tail to _them_, it's just a Little Bit Extra at the back.
	christopher robin	Never mind, Eeyore, Is that better?
	eeyore	It's feeling more like a tail perhaps. It Belongs again, if you know what I mean.
	eeyore	Hullo, Pooh. Thank you for asking, but I shall be able to use it again in a day or two.
	pooh	Hullo, Pooh. Thank you for asking, but I shall be able to use it again in a day or two.
	pooh	Use what?
	eeyore	What we are talking about.
	pooh	I wasn't talking about anything, I said. He thought for a little and then suggested helpfully,
	pooh	"Perhaps it was somebody else.
	eeyore	Well, thank him for me when you see him.
	pooh	Pooh's found the North Pole,
	christopher robin	Pooh's found the North Pole,
	narrator	said Christopher Robin. "Isn't that lovely?"
	pooh	Is that it?
	eeyore	Yes,
	christopher robin	Yes,
	pooh	Yes,
	eeyore	Is that what we were looking for?
	christopher robin	Yes,
	pooh	Yes,
	eeyore	Oh! Well, anyhow--it didn't rain,
	narrator	he said. They stuck the pole in the ground, and Christopher Robin tied a message on to it.
	narrator	NORTH POLE DISCOVERED BY POOH POOH FOUND IT. Then they all went home again. And I think,
	narrator	but I am not quite sure, that Roo had a hot bath and went straight to bed.
	narrator	But Pooh went back to his own house, and feeling very proud of what he had done,
	narrator	had a little something to revive himself.
