	narrator	More than a week went by, in which the ill-luck that had hitherto pursued the _Covenant_ upon this voyage grew yet more strongly marked.
	narrator	Some days she made a little way; others, she was driven actually back. At last we were beaten so far to the south that we tossed and tacked to and fro the whole of the ninth day,
	narrator	within sight of Cape Wrath and the wild, rocky coast on either hand of it. There followed on that a council of the officers,
	narrator	and some decision which I did not rightly understand, seeing only the result: that we had made a fair wind of a foul one and were running south.
	narrator	The tenth afternoon there was a falling swell and a thick, wet, white fog that hid one end of the brig from the other.
	narrator	All afternoon, when I went on deck, I saw men and officers listening hard over the bulwarks--"for breakers,"
	narrator	they said; and though I did not so much as understand the word, I felt danger in the air,
	narrator	and was excited. Maybe about ten at night, I was serving Mr. Riach and the captain at their supper,
	narrator	when the ship struck something with a great sound, and we heard voices singing out. My two masters leaped to their feet.
	mr. riach	She's struck!
	captain hoseason	No, sir. We've only run a boat down.
	narrator	And they hurried out. The captain was in the right of it. We had run down a boat in the fog,
	narrator	and she had parted in the midst and gone to the bottom with all her crew but one.
	narrator	This man (as I heard afterwards) had been sitting in the stern as a passenger, while the rest were on the benches rowing.
	narrator	At the moment of the blow, the stern had been thrown into the air, and the man (having his hands free,
	narrator	and for all he was encumbered with a frieze overcoat that came below his knees) had leaped up and caught hold of the brig's bowsprit.
	narrator	It showed he had luck and much agility and unusual strength, that he should have thus saved himself from such a pass.
	narrator	And yet, when the captain brought him into the round-house, and I set eyes on him for the first time,
	narrator	he looked as cool as I did. He was smallish in stature, but well set and as nimble as a goat; his face was of a good open expression,
	narrator	but sunburnt very dark, and heavily freckled and pitted with the small-pox; his eyes were unusually light and had a kind of dancing madness in them,
	narrator	that was both engaging and alarming; and when he took off his great-coat, he laid a pair of fine silver-mounted pistols on the table,
	narrator	and I saw that he was belted with a great sword. His manners, besides, were elegant,
	narrator	and he pledged the captain handsomely. Altogether I thought of him, at the first sight, that here was a man I would rather call my friend than my enemy.
	narrator	The captain, too, was taking his observations, but rather of the man's clothes than his person.
	narrator	And to be sure, as soon as he had taken off the great-coat, he showed forth mighty fine for the round-house of a merchant brig: having a hat with feathers,
	narrator	a red waistcoat, breeches of black plush, and a blue coat with silver buttons and handsome silver lace; costly clothes,
	narrator	though somewhat spoiled with the fog and being slept in.
	captain hoseason	I'm vexed, sir, about the boat.
	alan breck stewart	There are some pretty men gone to the bottom, that I would rather see on the dry land again than half a score of boats.
	captain hoseason	Friends of yours?
	alan breck stewart	You have none such friends in your country. They would have died for me like dogs.
	captain hoseason	Well, sir, there are more men in the world than boats to put them in.
	alan breck stewart	And that's true, too, and ye seem to be a gentleman of great penetration.
	captain hoseason	I have been in France, sir, so that it was plain he meant more by the words than showed upon the face of them.
	alan breck stewart	Well, sir, and so has many a pretty man, for the matter of that.
	captain hoseason	No doubt, sir, and fine coats.
	alan breck stewart	Oho! is that how the wind sets?
	narrator	And he laid his hand quickly on his pistols.
	captain hoseason	Don't be hasty. Don't do a mischief before ye see the need of it. Ye've a French soldier's coat upon your back and a Scotch tongue in your head,
	captain hoseason	to be sure; but so has many an honest fellow in these days, and I dare say none the worse of it.
	alan breck stewart	So? are ye of the honest party?
	captain hoseason	Why, sir, I am a true-blue Protestant, and I thank God for it.
	narrator	(It was the first word of any religion I had ever heard from him, but I learnt afterwards he was a great church-goer while on shore.)
	captain hoseason	But, for all that, I can be sorry to see another man with his back to the wall.
	alan breck stewart	Can ye so, indeed? Well, sir, to be quite plain with ye, I am one of those honest gentlemen that were in trouble about the years forty-five and six; and (to be still quite plain with ye) if I got into the hands of any of the red-coated gentry,
	alan breck stewart	it's like it would go hard with me. Now, sir, I was for France; and there was a French ship cruising here to pick me up; but she gave us the go-by in the fog--as I wish from the heart that ye had done yoursel'!
	alan breck stewart	And the best that I can say is this: If ye can set me ashore where I was going,
	alan breck stewart	I have that upon me will reward you highly for your trouble.
	captain hoseason	In France? No, sir; that I cannot do. But where ye come from--we might talk of that.
	narrator	And then, unhappily, he observed me standing in my corner, and packed me off to the galley to get supper for the gentleman.
	narrator	I lost no time, I promise you; and when I came back into the round-house, I found the gentleman had taken a money-belt from about his waist,
	narrator	and poured out a guinea or two upon the table. The captain was looking at the guineas,
	narrator	and then at the belt, and then at the gentleman's face; and I thought he seemed excited.
	narrator	Half of it,
	alan breck stewart	and I'm your man!
	narrator	The other swept back the guineas into the belt, and put it on again under his waistcoat.
	alan breck stewart	I have told ye sir, that not one doit of it belongs to me. It belongs to my chieftain,
	narrator	and here he touched his hat,
	alan breck stewart	and while I would be but a silly messenger to grudge some of it that the rest might come safe,
	alan breck stewart	I should show myself a hound indeed if I bought my own carcase any too dear.
	alan breck stewart	Thirty guineas on the sea-side, or sixty if ye set me on the Linnhe Loch. Take it,
	alan breck stewart	if ye will; if not, ye can do your worst.
	captain hoseason	Ay, And if I give ye over to the soldiers?
	alan breck stewart	Ye would make a fool's bargain, My chief, let me tell you, sir, is forfeited, like every honest man in Scotland.
	alan breck stewart	His estate is in the hands of the man they call King George; and it is his officers that collect the rents,
	alan breck stewart	or try to collect them. But for the honour of Scotland, the poor tenant bodies take a thought upon their chief lying in exile; and this money is a part of that very rent for which King George is looking.
	alan breck stewart	Now, sir, ye seem to me to be a man that understands things: bring this money within the reach of Government,
	alan breck stewart	and how much of it'll come to you?
	captain hoseason	Little enough, to be sure, and then, "if they knew," he added, drily. But I think,
	captain hoseason	if I was to try, that I could hold my tongue about it.
	alan breck stewart	Ah, but I'll begowk ye there! Play me false, and I'll play you cunning. If a hand is laid upon me,
	alan breck stewart	they shall ken what money it is.
	captain hoseason	Well, what must be must. Sixty guineas, and done. Here's my hand upon it.
	alan breck stewart	And here's mine,
	narrator	And thereupon the captain went out (rather hurriedly, I thought), and left me alone in the round-house with the stranger.
	narrator	At that period (so soon after the forty-five) there were many exiled gentlemen coming back at the peril of their lives,
	narrator	either to see their friends or to collect a little money; and as for the Highland chiefs that had been forfeited,
	narrator	it was a common matter of talk how their tenants would stint themselves to send them money,
	narrator	and their clansmen outface the soldiery to get it in, and run the gauntlet of our great navy to carry it across.
	narrator	All this I had, of course, heard tell of; and now I had a man under my eyes whose life was forfeit on all these counts and upon one more,
	narrator	for he was not only a rebel and a smuggler of rents, but had taken service with King Louis of France.
	narrator	And as if all this were not enough, he had a belt full of golden guineas round his loins.
	narrator	Whatever my opinions, I could not look on such a man without a lively interest.
	david balfour	And so you're a Jacobite?
	alan breck stewart	Ay, And you, by your long face, should be a Whig?
	david balfour	Betwixt and between,
	alan breck stewart	Ay, And that's naething, But I'm saying, Mr. Betwixt-and-Between, this bottle of yours is dry; and it's hard if I'm to pay sixty guineas and be grudged a dram upon the back of it.
	david balfour	I'll go and ask for the key, and stepped on deck.
	narrator	The fog was as close as ever, but the swell almost down. They had laid the brig to,
	narrator	not knowing precisely where they were, and the wind (what little there was of it) not serving well for their true course.
	narrator	Some of the hands were still hearkening for breakers; but the captain and the two officers were in the waist with their heads together.
	narrator	It struck me (I don't know why) that they were after no good; and the first word I heard,
	narrator	as I drew softly near, more than confirmed me.
	mr. riach	Couldn't we wile him out of the round-house?
	captain hoseason	He's better where he is, he hasn't room to use his sword.
	mr. riach	Well, that's true, but he's hard to come at.
	captain hoseason	Hut! We can get the man in talk, one upon each side, and pin him by the two arms; or if that'll not hold,
	captain hoseason	sir, we can make a run by both the doors and get him under hand before he has the time to draw.
	narrator	At this hearing, I was seized with both fear and anger at these treacherous, greedy, bloody men that I sailed with.
	narrator	My first mind was to run away; my second was bolder.
	david balfour	Captain, the gentleman is seeking a dram, and the bottle's out. Will you give me the key?
	narrator	They all started and turned about.
	mr. riach	Why, here's our chance to get the firearms! Hark ye, David, do ye ken where the pistols are?
	captain hoseason	Ay, ay, put in Hoseason. "David kens; David's a good lad. Ye see, David my man,
	captain hoseason	yon wild Hielandman is a danger to the ship, besides being a rank foe to King George,
	captain hoseason	God bless him!
	david balfour	I had never been so be-Davided since I came on board: but I said Yes, as if all I heard were quite natural.
	captain hoseason	The trouble is, that all our firelocks, great and little, are in the round-house under this man's nose; likewise the powder.
	captain hoseason	Now, if I, or one of the officers, was to go in and take them, he would fall to thinking.
	captain hoseason	But a lad like you, David, might snap up a horn and a pistol or two without remark.
	captain hoseason	And if ye can do it cleverly, I'll bear it in mind when it'll be good for you to have friends; and that's when we come to Carolina.
	narrator	Here Mr. Riach whispered him a little.
	captain hoseason	Very right, sir, said the captain; and then to myself: And see here, David, yon man has a beltful of gold,
	captain hoseason	and I give you my word that you shall have your fingers in it.
	narrator	I told him I would do as he wished, though indeed I had scarce breath to speak with; and upon that he gave me the key of the spirit locker,
	narrator	and I began to go slowly back to the round-house. What was I to do? They were dogs and thieves; they had stolen me from my own country; they had killed poor Ransome; and was I to hold the candle to another murder?
	narrator	But then, upon the other hand, there was the fear of death very plain before me; for what could a boy and a man,
	narrator	if they were as brave as lions, against a whole ship's company? I was still arguing it back and forth,
	narrator	and getting no great clearness, when I came into the round-house and saw the Jacobite eating his supper under the lamp; and at that my mind was made up all in a moment.
	narrator	I have no credit by it; it was by no choice of mine, but as if by compulsion,
	narrator	that I walked right up to the table and put my hand on his shoulder.
	david balfour	Do ye want to be killed?
	alan breck stewart	O! cried I, "they're all murderers here; it's a ship full of them! They've murdered a boy already.
	alan breck stewart	Now it's you. Ay, ay," said he; "but they have n't got me yet." And then looking at me curiously,
	alan breck stewart	"Will ye stand with me?
	david balfour	That will I! said I. "I am no thief, nor yet murderer. I'll stand by you.
	alan breck stewart	Why, then," said he, "what's your name?
	david balfour	David Balfour," said I; and then, thinking that a man with so fine a coat must like fine people,
	david balfour	I added for the first time, "of Shaws.
	alan breck stewart	My name is Stewart," he said, drawing himself up. "Alan Breck, they call me. A king's name is good enough for me,
	alan breck stewart	though I bear it plain and have the name of no farm-midden to clap to the hind-end of it.
	narrator	And having administered this rebuke, as though it were something of a chief importance, he turned to examine our defences.
	narrator	The round-house was built very strong, to support the breaching of the seas. Of its five apertures,
	narrator	only the skylight and the two doors were large enough for the passage of a man.
	narrator	The doors, besides, could be drawn close: they were of stout oak, and ran in grooves,
	narrator	and were fitted with hooks to keep them either shut or open, as the need arose.
	narrator	The one that was already shut I secured in this fashion; but when I was proceeding to slide to the other,
	narrator	Alan stopped me.
	alan breck stewart	David," said he--"for I cannae bring to mind the name of your landed estate, and so will make so bold as to call you David--that door,
	alan breck stewart	being open, is the best part of my defences.
	david balfour	It would be yet better shut," says I.
	alan breck stewart	Not so, David," says he. "Ye see, I have but one face; but so long as that door is open and my face to it,
	alan breck stewart	the best part of my enemies will be in front of me, where I would aye wish to find them.
	narrator	Then he gave me from the rack a cutlass (of which there were a few besides the firearms),
	narrator	choosing it with great care, shaking his head and saying he had never in all his life seen poorer weapons; and next he set me down to the table with a powder-horn,
	narrator	a bag of bullets and all the pistols, which he bade me charge.
	alan breck stewart	And that will be better work, let me tell you," said he, "for a gentleman of decent birth,
	alan breck stewart	than scraping plates and raxing drams to a wheen tarry sailors.
	narrator	Thereupon he stood up in the midst with his face to the door, and drawing his great sword,
	narrator	made trial of the room he had to wield it in.
	alan breck stewart	I must stick to the point," he said, shaking his head; "and that's a pity, too.
	alan breck stewart	It doesn't set my genius, which is all for the upper guard. And, now," said he,
	alan breck stewart	"do you keep on charging the pistols, and give heed to me.
	david balfour	I told him I would listen closely. My chest was tight, my mouth dry, the light dark to my eyes; the thought of the numbers that were soon to leap in upon us kept my heart in a flutter: and the sea,
	david balfour	which I heard washing round the brig, and where I thought my dead body would be cast ere morning,
	david balfour	ran in my mind strangely.
	alan breck stewart	First of all," said he, "how many are against us?
	david balfour	I reckoned them up; and such was the hurry of my mind, I had to cast the numbers twice.
	david balfour	"Fifteen," said I.
	alan breck stewart	Well," said he, "that can't be cured. And now follow me. It is my part to keep this door,
	alan breck stewart	where I look for the main battle. In that, ye have no hand. And mind and dinnae fire to this side unless they get me down; for I would rather have ten foes in front of me than one friend like you cracking pistols at my back.
	david balfour	I told him, indeed I was no great shot.
	alan breck stewart	And that's very bravely said," he cried, in a great admiration of my candour. "There's many a pretty gentleman that wouldnae dare to say it.
	david balfour	But then, sir," said I, "there is the door behind you, which they may perhaps break in.
	alan breck stewart	Ay," said he, "and that is a part of your work. No sooner the pistols charged,
	alan breck stewart	than ye must climb up into yon bed where ye're handy at the window; and if they lift hand against the door,
	alan breck stewart	ye're to shoot. But that's not all. Let's make a bit of a soldier of ye,
	alan breck stewart	David. What else have ye to guard?
	david balfour	There's the skylight," said I. "But indeed, Mr. Stewart, I would need to have eyes upon both sides to keep the two of them; for when my face is at the one,
	david balfour	my back is to the other.
	alan breck stewart	And that's very true," said Alan. "But have ye no ears to your head?
	david balfour	To be sure!" cried I. "I must hear the bursting of the glass!
	alan breck stewart	Ye have some rudiments of sense," said Alan, grimly.
