	narrator	One night, about eleven o'clock, a man of Mr. Riach's watch (which was on deck) came below for his jacket; and instantly there began to go a whisper about the forecastle that "Shuan had done for him at last."
	narrator	There was no need of a name; we all knew who was meant; but we had scarce time to get the idea rightly in our heads,
	narrator	far less to speak of it, when the scuttle was again flung open, and Captain Hoseason came down the ladder.
	captain hoseason	My man, we want ye to serve in the round-house. You and Ransome are to change berths.
	captain hoseason	Run away aft with ye.
	narrator	Even as he spoke, two seamen appeared in the scuttle, carrying Ransome in their arms; and the ship at that moment giving a great sheer into the sea,
	narrator	and the lantern swinging, the light fell direct on the boy's face. It was as white as wax,
	narrator	and had a look upon it like a dreadful smile. The blood in me ran cold,
	narrator	and I drew in my breath as if I had been struck.
	captain hoseason	Run away aft; run away aft with ye!
	narrator	And at that I brushed by the sailors and the boy (who neither spoke nor moved),
	narrator	and ran up the ladder on deck. The brig was sheering swiftly and giddily through a long,
	narrator	cresting swell. She was on the starboard tack, and on the left hand, under the arched foot of the foresail,
	narrator	I could see the sunset still quite bright. This, at such an hour of the night,
	narrator	surprised me greatly; but I was too ignorant to draw the true conclusion--that we were going north-about round Scotland,
	narrator	and were now on the high sea between the Orkney and Shetland Islands, having avoided the dangerous currents of the Pentland Firth.
	narrator	For my part, who had been so long shut in the dark and knew nothing of head-winds,
	narrator	I thought we might be half-way or more across the Atlantic. And indeed (beyond that I wondered a little at the lateness of the sunset light) I gave no heed to it,
	narrator	and pushed on across the decks, running between the seas, catching at ropes, and only saved from going overboard by one of the hands on deck,
	narrator	who had been always kind to me. The round-house, for which I was bound, and where I was now to sleep and serve,
	narrator	stood some six feet above the decks, and considering the size of the brig, was of good dimensions.
	narrator	Inside were a fixed table and bench, and two berths, one for the captain and the other for the two mates,
	narrator	turn and turn about. It was all fitted with lockers from top to bottom, so as to stow away the officers'
	narrator	belongings and a part of the ship's stores; there was a second store-room underneath, which you entered by a hatchway in the middle of the deck; indeed,
	narrator	all the best of the meat and drink and the whole of the powder were collected in this place; and all the firearms,
	narrator	except the two pieces of brass ordnance, were set in a rack in the aftermost wall of the round-house.
	narrator	The most of the cutlasses were in another place. A small window with a shutter on each side,
	narrator	and a skylight in the roof, gave it light by day; and after dark there was a lamp always burning.
	narrator	It was burning when I entered, not brightly, but enough to show Mr. Shuan sitting at the table,
	narrator	with the brandy bottle and a tin pannikin in front of him. He was a tall man,
	narrator	strongly made and very black; and he stared before him on the table like one stupid.
	narrator	He took no notice of my coming in; nor did he move when the captain followed and leant on the berth beside me,
	narrator	looking darkly at the mate. I stood in great fear of Hoseason, and had my reasons for it; but something told me I need not be afraid of him just then; and I whispered in his ear: "How is he?"
	captain hoseason	He shook his head like one that does not know and does not wish to think,
	captain hoseason	and his face was very stern.
	narrator	Presently Mr. Riach came in.
	mr. riach	He gave the captain a glance that meant the boy was dead as plain as speaking,
	mr. riach	and took his place like the rest of us; so that we all three stood without a word,
	mr. riach	staring down at Mr. Shuan, and Mr. Shuan (on his side) sat without a word, looking hard upon the table.
	narrator	All of a sudden he put out his hand to take the bottle; and at that Mr. Riach started forward and caught it away from him,
	narrator	rather by surprise than violence, crying out, with an oath, that there had been too much of this work altogether,
	narrator	and that a judgment would fall upon the ship.
	mr. riach	There had been too much of this work altogether, and that a judgment would fall upon the ship.
	narrator	And as he spoke (the weather sliding-doors standing open) he tossed the bottle into the sea.
	narrator	Mr. Shuan was on his feet in a trice; he still looked dazed, but he meant murder,
	narrator	ay, and would have done it, for the second time that night, had not the captain stepped in between him and his victim.
	captain hoseason	Sit down! Ye sot and swine, do ye know what ye've done? Ye've murdered the boy!
	narrator	Mr. Shuan seemed to understand; for he sat down again, and put up his hand to his brow.
	mr. shuan	Well, he brought me a dirty pannikin!
	narrator	At that word, the captain and I and Mr. Riach all looked at each other for a second with a kind of frightened look; and then Hoseason walked up to his chief officer,
	narrator	took him by the shoulder, led him across to his bunk, and bade him lie down and go to sleep,
	narrator	as you might speak to a bad child. The murderer cried a little, but he took off his sea-boots and obeyed.
	mr. riach	Ah! ye should have interfered long syne. It's too late now.
	captain hoseason	Mr. Riach, this night's work must never be kennt in Dysart. The boy went overboard, sir; that's what the story is; and I would give five pounds out of my pocket it was true!
	captain hoseason	What made ye throw the good bottle away? There was nae sense in that, sir. Here,
	captain hoseason	David, draw me another. They're in the bottom locker; and he tossed me a key. Ye'll need a glass yourself,
	captain hoseason	sir, he added to Riach. "Yon was an ugly thing to see.
	narrator	So the pair sat down and hob-a-nobbed; and while they did so, the murderer, who had been lying and whimpering in his berth,
	narrator	raised himself upon his elbow and looked at them and at me. That was the first night of my new duties; and in the course of the next day I had got well into the run of them.
	narrator	I had to serve at the meals, which the captain took at regular hours, sitting down with the officer who was off duty; all the day through I would be running with a dram to one or other of my three masters; and at night I slept on a blanket
	narrator	thrown on the deck boards at the aftermost end of the round-house, and right in the draught of the two doors.
	narrator	It was a hard and a cold bed; nor was I suffered to sleep without interruption; for some one would be always coming in from deck to get a dram,
	narrator	and when a fresh watch was to be set, two and sometimes all three would sit down and brew a bowl together.
	narrator	How they kept their health, I know not, any more than how I kept my own.
	narrator	And yet in other ways it was an easy service. There was no cloth to lay; the meals were either of oatmeal porridge or salt junk,
	narrator	except twice a week, when there was duff: and though I was clumsy enough and (not being firm on my sealegs) sometimes fell with what I was bringing them,
	narrator	both Mr. Riach and the captain were singularly patient. I could not but fancy they were making up lee-way with their consciences,
	narrator	and that they would scarce have been so good with me if they had not been worse with Ransome.
	narrator	As for Mr. Shuan, the drink or his crime, or the two together, had certainly troubled his mind.
	narrator	I cannot say I ever saw him in his proper wits. He never grew used to my being there,
	narrator	stared at me continually (sometimes, I could have thought, with terror), and more than once drew back from my hand when I was serving him.
	narrator	I was pretty sure from the first that he had no clear mind of what he had done,
	narrator	and on my second day in the round-house I had the proof of it. We were alone,
	narrator	and he had been staring at me a long time, when all at once, up he got,
	narrator	as pale as death, and came close up to me, to my great terror. But I had no cause to be afraid of him.
	mr. shuan	You were not here before?
	david	No, sir.
	mr. shuan	There was another boy?
	david	Yes, sir.
	mr. shuan	Ah! I thought that,
	narrator	and went and sat down, without another word, except to call for brandy. You may think it strange,
	narrator	but for all the horror I had, I was still sorry for him. He was a married man,
	narrator	with a wife in Leith; but whether or no he had a family, I have now forgotten; I hope not.
	narrator	Altogether it was no very hard life for the time it lasted, which (as you are to hear) was not long.
	narrator	I was as well fed as the best of them; even their pickles, which were the great dainty,
	narrator	I was allowed my share of; and had I liked I might have been drunk from morning to night,
	narrator	like Mr. Shuan. I had company, too, and good company of its sort. Mr. Riach, who had been to the college,
	narrator	spoke to me like a friend when he was not sulking, and told me many curious things,
	narrator	and some that were informing; and even the captain, though he kept me at the stick's end the most part of the time,
	narrator	would sometimes unbuckle a bit, and tell me of the fine countries he had visited. The shadow of poor Ransome,
	narrator	to be sure, lay on all four of us, and on me and Mr. Shuan in particular,
	narrator	most heavily. And then I had another trouble of my own. Here I was, doing dirty work for three men that I looked down upon,
	narrator	and one of whom, at least, should have hung upon a gallows; that was for the present; and as for the future,
	narrator	I could only see myself slaving alongside of negroes in the tobacco fields. Mr. Riach, perhaps from caution,
	narrator	would never suffer me to say another word about my story; the captain, whom I tried to approach,
	narrator	rebuffed me like a dog and would not hear a word; and as the days came and went,
	narrator	my heart sank lower and lower, till I was even glad of the work which kept me from thinking.
