	narrator	CHAPTER XI THE CAPTAIN KNUCKLES UNDER Alan and I sat down to breakfast about six of the clock.
	narrator	The floor was covered with broken glass and in a horrid mess of blood, which took away my hunger.
	narrator	In all other ways we were in a situation not only agreeable but merry; having ousted the officers from their own cabin,
	narrator	and having at command all the drink in the ship--both wine and spirits--and all the dainty part of what was eatable,
	narrator	such as the pickles and the fine sort of bread. This, of itself, was enough to set us in good humour,
	narrator	but the richest part of it was this, that the two thirstiest men that ever came out of Scotland (Mr.
	narrator	Shuan being dead) were now shut in the fore-part of the ship and condemned to what they hated most--cold water.
	alan breck	And depend upon it, we shall hear more of them ere long. Ye may keep a man from the fighting,
	alan breck	but never from his bottle.
	narrator	We made good company for each other. Alan, indeed, expressed himself most lovingly; and taking a knife from the table,
	narrator	cut me off one of the silver buttons from his coat.
	alan breck	I had them from my father, Duncan Stewart; and now give ye one of them to be a keepsake for last night's work.
	alan breck	And wherever ye go and show that button, the friends of Alan Breck will come around you.
	narrator	He said this as if he had been Charlemagne, and commanded armies; and indeed, much as I admired his courage,
	narrator	I was always in danger of smiling at his vanity: in danger, I say, for had I not kept my countenance,
	narrator	I would be afraid to think what a quarrel might have followed. As soon as we were through with our meal he rummaged in the captain's locker till he found a clothes-brush; and then taking off his coat,
	narrator	began to visit his suit and brush away the stains, with such care and labour as I supposed to have been only usual with women.
	narrator	To be sure, he had no other; and, besides (as he said), it belonged to a king and so behoved to be royally looked after.
	narrator	For all that, when I saw what care he took to pluck out the threads where the button had been cut away,
	narrator	I put a higher value on his gift. He was still so engaged when we were hailed by Mr. Riach from the deck,
	narrator	asking for a parley; and I, climbing through the skylight and sitting on the edge of it,
	narrator	pistol in hand and with a bold front, though inwardly in fear of broken glass, hailed him back again and bade him speak out.
	narrator	He came to the edge of the round-house, and stood on a coil of rope, so that his chin was on a level with the roof; and we looked at each other awhile in silence.
	narrator	Mr. Riach, as I do not think he had been very forward in the battle, so he had got off with nothing worse than a blow upon the cheek: but he looked out of heart and very weary,
	narrator	having been all night afoot, either standing watch or doctoring the wounded.
	mr. riach	This is a bad job,
	narrator	said he at last, shaking his head. "It was none of our choosing," said I.
	mr. riach	The captain, says he, "would like to speak with your friend. They might speak at the window.
	narrator	"And how do we know what treachery he means?" cried I.
	mr. riach	He means none, David," returned Mr. Riach, "and if he did, I'll tell ye the honest truth,
	mr. riach	we couldnae get the men to follow.
	narrator	"Is that so?" said I.
	mr. riach	I'll tell ye more than that," said he. "It's not only the men; it's me. I'm frich'ened,
	mr. riach	Davie." And he smiled across at me. "No," he continued, "what we want is to be shut of him.
	narrator	Thereupon I consulted with Alan, and the parley was agreed to and parole given upon either side; but this was not the whole of Mr. Riach's business,
	narrator	and he now begged me for a dram with such instancy and such reminders of his former kindness,
	narrator	that at last I handed him a pannikin with about a gill of brandy. He drank a part,
	narrator	and then carried the rest down upon the deck, to share it (I suppose) with his superior.
	narrator	A little after, the captain came (as was agreed) to one of the windows, and stood there in the rain,
	narrator	with his arm in a sling, and looking stern and pale, and so old that my heart smote me for having fired upon him.
	alan breck	Put that thing up!
	captain hoseason	Have I not passed my word, sir? or do ye seek to affront me?
	alan breck	Captain, I doubt your word is a breakable. Last night ye haggled and argle-bargled like an apple-wife; and then passed me your word,
	alan breck	and gave me your hand to back it; and ye ken very well what was the upshot.
	alan breck	Be damned to your word!
	captain hoseason	Well, well, sir, ye'll get little good by swearing. (And truly that was a fault of which the captain was quite free.) But we have other things to speak,
	captain hoseason	he continued, bitterly. "Ye've made a sore hash of my brig; I haven't hands enough left to work her; and my first officer (whom I could ill spare) has got your sword throughout his vitals,
	captain hoseason	and passed without speech. There is nothing left me, sir, but to put back into the port of Glasgow after hands; and there (by your leave) ye will find them that are better able to talk to you.
	alan breck	Ay? And faith, I'll have a talk with them mysel'! Unless there's naebody speaks English in that town,
	alan breck	I have a bonny tale for them. Fifteen tarry sailors upon the one side, and a man and a halfling boy upon the other!
	alan breck	O, man, it's peetiful!
	captain hoseason	No,
	alan breck	continued Alan, "that'll no do. Ye'll just have to set me ashore as we agreed.
	captain hoseason	Ay, said Hoseason, "but my first officer is dead--ye ken best how. There's none of the rest of us acquaint with this coast,
	captain hoseason	sir; and it's one very dangerous to ships.
	alan breck	I give ye your choice, says Alan. "Set me on dry ground in Appin, or Ardgour,
	alan breck	or in Morven, or Arisaig, or Morar; or, in brief, where ye please, within thirty miles of my own country; except in a country of the Campbells.
	alan breck	That's a broad target. If ye miss that, ye must be as feckless at the sailoring as I have found ye at the fighting.
	alan breck	Why, my poor country people in their bit cobles pass from island to island in all weathers,
	alan breck	ay, and by night too, for the matter of that.
	captain hoseason	A coble’s not a ship, sir. It has nae draught of water.
	alan breck	Well, then, to Glasgow if ye list! We’ll have the laugh of ye at the least.
	captain hoseason	My mind runs little upon laughing.
	alan breck	But all this will cost money, sir. Well, sir, I am nae weathercock. Thirty guineas, if ye land me on the sea-side; and sixty,
	alan breck	if ye put me in the Linnhe Loch.
	captain hoseason	But see, sir, where we lie, we are but a few hours' sail from Ardnamurchan. Give me sixty,
	captain hoseason	and I'll set ye there.
	alan breck	And I’m to wear my brogues and run jeopardy of the red-coats to please you? No,
	alan breck	sir; if ye want sixty guineas earn them, and set me in my own country.
	captain hoseason	It's to risk the brig, sir, and your own lives along with her.
	alan breck	Take it or want it.
	captain hoseason	Could ye pilot us at all?
	alan breck	Well, it's doubtful. I'm more of a fighting man (as ye have seen for yoursel') than a sailor-man.
	alan breck	But I have been often enough picked up and set down upon this coast, and should ken something of the lie of it.
	captain hoseason	If I had lost less money on this unchancy cruise, says he, I would see you in a rope's end before I risked my brig,
	captain hoseason	sir. But be it as ye will. As soon as I get a slant of wind (and there's some coming,
	captain hoseason	or I'm the more mistaken) I'll put it in hand. But there's one thing more. We may meet in with a king's ship and she may lay us aboard,
	captain hoseason	sir, with no blame of mine: they keep the cruisers thick upon this coast, ye ken who for.
	captain hoseason	Now, sir, if that was to befall, ye might leave the money.
	alan breck	Captain, if ye see a pennant, it shall be your part to run away. And now,
	alan breck	as I hear you're a little short of brandy in the fore-part, I'll offer ye a change: a bottle of brandy against two buckets of water.
	narrator	That was the last clause of the treaty, and was duly executed on both sides; so that Alan and I could at last wash out the round-house and be quit of the memorials of those whom we had slain,
	narrator	and the captain and Mr. Riach could be happy again in their own way, the name of which was drink.
