	narrator	CHAPTER XX THE FLIGHT IN THE HEATHER: THE ROCKS Sometimes we walked, sometimes ran; and as it drew on to morning,
	narrator	walked ever the less and ran the more. Though, upon its face, that country appeared to be a desert,
	narrator	yet there were huts and houses of the people, of which we must have passed more than twenty,
	narrator	hidden in quiet places of the hills. When we came to one of these, Alan would leave me in the way,
	narrator	and go himself and rap upon the side of the house and speak awhile at the window with some sleeper awakened.
	narrator	This was to pass the news; which, in that country, was so much of a duty that Alan must pause to attend to it even while fleeing for his life; and so well attended to by others,
	narrator	that in more than half of the houses where we called they had heard already of the murder.
	narrator	In the others, as well as I could make out (standing back at a distance and hearing a strange tongue),
	narrator	the news was received with more of consternation than surprise. For all our hurry, day began to come in while we were still far from any shelter.
	narrator	It found us in a prodigious valley, strewn with rocks and where ran a foaming river.
	narrator	Wild mountains stood around it; there grew there neither grass nor trees; and I have sometimes thought since then,
	narrator	that it may have been the valley called Glencoe, where the massacre was in the time of King William.
	narrator	But for the details of our itinerary, I am all to seek; our way lying now by short cuts,
	narrator	now by great detours; our pace being so hurried, our time of journeying usually by night; and the names of such places as I asked and heard being in the Gaelic tongue and the more easily forgotten.
	narrator	The first peep of morning, then, showed us this horrible place, and I could see Alan knit his brow.
	alan	This is no fit place for you and me. This is a place they're bound to watch.
	narrator	And with that he ran harder than ever down to the water-side, in a part where the river was split in two among three rocks.
	narrator	It went through with a horrid thundering that made my belly quake; and there hung over the lynn a little mist of spray.
	alan	This is no fit place for you and me. This is a place they're bound to watch.
	narrator	Alan looked neither to the right nor to the left, but jumped clean upon the middle rock and fell there on his hands and knees to check himself,
	narrator	for that rock was small and he might have pitched over on the far side. I had scarce time to measure the distance or to understand the peril before I had followed him,
	narrator	and he had caught and stopped me. So there we stood, side by side upon a small rock slippery with spray,
	narrator	a far broader leap in front of us, and the river dinning upon all sides. When I saw where I was,
	narrator	there came on me a deadly sickness of fear, and I put my hand over my eyes.
	alan	I saw he was speaking, but the roaring of the falls and the trouble of my mind prevented me from hearing; only I saw his face was red with anger,
	alan	and that he stamped upon the rock. I saw he was speaking, but the roaring of the falls and the trouble of my mind prevented me from hearing; only I saw his face was red with anger,
	alan	and that he stamped upon the rock.
	narrator	The same look showed me the water raging by, and the mist hanging in the air: and with that I covered my eyes again and shuddered.
	narrator	The next minute Alan had set the brandy bottle to my lips, and forced me to drink about a gill,
	narrator	which sent the blood into my head again.
	alan	Hang or drown!
	narrator	and turning his back upon me, leaped over the farther branch of the stream, and landed safe.
	narrator	I was now alone upon the rock, which gave me the more room; the brandy was singing in my ears; I had this good example fresh before me,
	narrator	and just wit enough to see that if I did not leap at once, I should never leap at all.
	narrator	I bent low on my knees and flung myself forth, with that kind of anger of despair that has sometimes stood me in stead of courage.
	narrator	Sure enough, it was but my hands that reached the full length; these slipped, caught again,
	narrator	slipped again; and I was sliddering back into the lynn, when Alan seized me, first by the hair,
	narrator	then by the collar, and with a great strain dragged me into safety. Never a word he said,
	narrator	but set off running again for his life, and I must stagger to my feet and run after him.
	narrator	I had been weary before, but now I was sick and bruised, and partly drunken with the brandy; I kept stumbling as I ran,
	narrator	I had a stitch that came near to overmaster me; and when at last Alan paused under a great rock that stood there among a number of others,
	narrator	it was none too soon for David Balfour. A great rock I have said; but by rights it was two rocks leaning together at the top,
	narrator	both some twenty feet high, and at the first sight inaccessible. Even Alan (though you may say he had as good as four hands) failed twice in an attempt to climb them; and it was only at the third trial,
	narrator	and then by standing on my shoulders and leaping up with such force as I thought must have broken my collar-bone,
	narrator	that he secured a lodgment. Once there, he let down his leathern girdle; and with the aid of that and a pair of shallow footholds in the rock,
	narrator	I scrambled up beside him. Then I saw why we had come there; for the two rocks,
	narrator	being both somewhat hollow on the top and sloping one to the other, made a kind of dish or saucer,
	narrator	where as many as three or four men might have lain hidden. All this while Alan had not said a word,
	narrator	and had run and climbed with such a savage, silent frenzy of hurry, that I knew that he was in mortal fear of some miscarriage.
	narrator	Even now we were on the rock he said nothing, nor so much as relaxed the frowning look upon his face; but clapped flat down,
	narrator	and keeping only one eye above the edge of our place of shelter scouted all round the compass.
	narrator	The dawn had come quite clear; we could see the stony sides of the valley, and its bottom,
	narrator	which was bestrewed with rocks, and the river, which went from one side to another, and made white falls; but nowhere the smoke of a house,
	narrator	nor any living creature but some eagles screaming round a cliff.
	alan	Ay now we have a chance; Ye're no very gleg at the jumping,
	narrator	At this I suppose I coloured with mortification, for he added at once
	alan	Hoots! small blame to ye! To be feared of a thing and yet to do it,
	alan	is what makes the prettiest kind of a man. And then there was water there, and water's a thing that dauntons even me.
	alan	No, no, it's no you that's to blame, it's me.
	david balfour	I asked him why.
	alan	Why, I have proved myself a gomeral this night. For first of all I take a wrong road,
	alan	and that in my own country of Appin; so that the day has caught us where we should never have been; and thanks to that,
	alan	we lie here in some danger and mair discomfort. And next (which is the worst of the two,
	alan	for a man that has been so much among the heather as myself) I have come wanting a water-bottle,
	alan	and here we lie for a long summer's day with naething but neat spirit.
	david balfour	Ye may think that a small matter; but before it comes night, David, ye'll give me news of it.
	narrator	I was anxious to redeem my character, and offered, if he would pour out the brandy,
	narrator	to run down and fill the bottle at the river.
	alan	I wouldnae waste the good spirit either, It's been a good friend to you this night; or in my poor opinion,
	alan	ye would still be cocking on yon stone. And what's mair, ye may have observed (you that's a man of so much penetration) that Alan Breck Stewart was perhaps walking quicker than his ordinar'.
	david balfour	You! you were running fit to burst.
	alan	Was I so? Well, then, ye may depend upon it, there was nae time to be lost.
	alan	And now here is enough said; gang you to your sleep, lad, and I'll watch.
	narrator	Accordingly, I lay down to sleep; a little peaty earth had drifted in between the top of the two rocks,
	narrator	and some bracken grew there, to be a bed to me; the last thing I heard was still the crying of the eagles.
	narrator	I dare say it would be nine in the morning when I was roughly awakened, and found Alan's hand pressed upon my mouth.
	alan	Wheesht! Ye were snoring.
	david balfour	Well, and why not?
	narrator	He peered over the edge of the rock, and signed to me to do the like.
	narrator	It was now high day, cloudless, and very hot. The valley was as clear as in a picture.
	narrator	About half a mile up the water was a camp of red-coats; a big fire blazed in their midst,
	narrator	at which some were cooking; and near by, on the top of a rock about as high as ours,
	narrator	there stood a sentry, with the sun sparkling on his arms. All the way down along the river-side were posted other sentries; here near together,
	narrator	there widelier scattered; some planted like the first, on places of command, some on the ground level and marching and counter-marching,
	narrator	so as to meet half-way. Higher up the glen, where the ground was more open, the chain of posts was continued by horse-soldiers,
	narrator	whom we could see in the distance riding to and fro. Lower down, the infantry continued; but as the stream was suddenly swelled by the confluence of a considerable burn,
	narrator	they were more widely set, and only watched the fords and stepping-stones.
	david balfour	I took but one look at them, and ducked again into my place.
	narrator	It was strange indeed to see this valley, which had lain so solitary in the hour of dawn,
	narrator	bristling with arms and dotted with the red coats and breeches.
	alan	Ye see, this was what I was afraid of, Davie: that they would watch the burn-side.
	alan	They began to come in about two hours ago, and, man! but ye're a grand hand at the sleeping!
	alan	We're in a narrow place. If they get up the sides of the hill, they could easy spy us with a glass; but if they'll only keep in the foot of the valley,
	alan	we'll do yet. The posts are thinner down the water; and, come night, we'll try our hand at getting by them.
	david balfour	And what are we to do till night?
	alan	Lie here, and birstle.
	narrator	That one good Scotch word, "birstle," was indeed the most of the story of the day that we had now to pass.
	narrator	You are to remember that we lay on the bare top of a rock, like scones upon a girdle; the sun beat upon us cruelly; the rock grew so heated,
	narrator	a man could scarce endure the touch of it; and the little patch of earth and fern,
	narrator	which kept cooler, was only large enough for one at a time. We took turn about to lie on the naked rock,
	narrator	which was indeed like the position of that saint that was martyred on a gridiron; and it ran in my mind how strange it was,
	narrator	that in the same climate and at only a few days' distance, I should have suffered so cruelly,
	narrator	first from cold upon my island and now from heat upon this rock. All the while we had no water,
	narrator	only raw brandy for a drink, which was worse than nothing; but we kept the bottle as cool as we could,
	narrator	burying it in the earth, and got some relief by bathing our breasts and temples. The soldiers kept stirring all day in the bottom of the valley,
	narrator	now changing guard, now in patrolling parties hunting among the rocks. These lay round in so great a number,
	narrator	that to look for men among them was like looking for a needle in a bottle of hay; and being so hopeless a task,
	narrator	it was gone about with the less care. Yet we could see the soldiers pike their bayonets among the heather,
	narrator	which sent a cold thrill into my vitals; and they would sometimes hang about our rock,
	narrator	so that we scarce dared to breathe. It was in this way that I first heard the right English speech; one fellow as he went by actually clapping his hand upon the sunny face of the rock on which we lay,
	narrator	and plucking it off again with an oath. I tell you it's 'ot, says he; and I was amazed at the clipping tones and the odd sing-song in which he spoke,
	narrator	and no less at that strange trick of dropping out the letter "h." To be sure,
	narrator	I had heard Ransome; but he had taken his ways from all sorts of people, and spoke so imperfectly at the best,
	narrator	that I set down the most of it to childishness. My surprise was all the greater to hear that manner of speaking in the mouth of a grown man; and indeed I have never grown used to it; nor yet altogether with the English grammar,
	narrator	as perhaps a very critical eye might here and there spy out even in these memoirs.
	narrator	The tediousness and pain of these hours upon the rock grew only the greater as the day went on; the rock getting still the hotter and the sun fiercer.
	narrator	There were giddiness, and sickness, and sharp pangs like rheumatism, to be supported. I minded then,
	narrator	and have often minded since, on the lines in our Scotch psalm:-- "The moon by night thee shall not smite,
	narrator	Nor yet the sun by day;" and indeed it was only by God's blessing that we were neither of us sun-smitten.
	narrator	At last, about two, it was beyond men's bearing, and there was now temptation to resist,
	narrator	as well as pain to thole. For the sun being now got a little into the west,
	narrator	there came a patch of shade on the east side of our rock, which was the side sheltered from the soldiers.
	alan	As well one death as another,
	narrator	said Alan, and slipped over the edge and dropped on the ground on the shadowy side.
	narrator	I followed him at once, and instantly fell all my length, so weak was I and so giddy with that long exposure.
	narrator	Here, then, we lay for an hour or two, aching from head to foot, as weak as water,
	narrator	and lying quite naked to the eye of any soldier who should have strolled that way.
	narrator	None came, however, all passing by on the other side; so that our rock continued to be our shield even in this new position.
	narrator	Presently we began again to get a little strength; and as the soldiers were now lying closer along the river-side,
	narrator	Alan proposed that we should try a start. I was by this time afraid of but one thing in the world; and that was to be set back upon the rock; anything else was welcome to me; so we got ourselves at once in marching order,
	narrator	and began to slip from rock to rock one after the other, now crawling flat on our bellies in the shade,
	narrator	now making a run for it, heart in mouth. The soldiers, having searched this side of the valley after a fashion,
	narrator	and being perhaps somewhat sleepy with the sultriness of the afternoon, had now laid by much of their vigilance,
	narrator	and stood dozing at their posts or only kept a look-out along the banks of the river; so that in this way,
	narrator	keeping down the valley and at the same time towards the mountains, we drew steadily away from their neighbourhood.
	narrator	But the business was the most wearing I had ever taken part in. A man had need of a hundred eyes in every part of him,
	narrator	to keep concealed in that uneven country and within cry of so many and scattered sentries.
	narrator	When we must pass an open place, quickness was not all, but a swift judgment not only of the lie of the whole country,
	narrator	but of the solidity of every stone on which we must set foot; for the afternoon was now fallen so breathless that the rolling of a pebble sounded abroad like a pistol shot,
	narrator	and would start the echo calling among the hills and cliffs. By sundown we had made some distance,
	narrator	even by our slow rate of progress, though to be sure the sentry on the rock was still plainly in our view.
	narrator	But now we came on something that put all fears out of season; and that was a deep rushing burn,
	narrator	that tore down, in that part, to join the glen river. At the sight of this we cast ourselves on the ground and plunged head and shoulders in the water; and I cannot tell which was the more pleasant,
	narrator	the great shock as the cool stream went over us, or the greed with which we drank of it.
	narrator	We lay there (for the banks hid us), drank again and again, bathed our chests, let our wrists trail in the running water till they ached with the chill; and at last,
	narrator	being wonderfully renewed, we got out the meal-bag and made drammach in the iron pan. This,
	narrator	though it is but cold water mingled with oatmeal, yet makes a good enough dish for a hungry man; and where there are no means of making fire,
	narrator	or (as in our case) good reason for not making one, it is the chief stand-by of those who have taken to the heather.
	narrator	As soon as the shadow of the night had fallen, we set forth again, at first with the same caution,
	narrator	but presently with more boldness, standing our full height and stepping out at a good pace of walking.
	narrator	The way was very intricate, lying up the steep sides of mountains and along the brows of cliffs; clouds had come in with the sunset,
	narrator	and the night was dark and cool; so that I walked without much fatigue, but in continual fear of falling and rolling down the mountains,
	narrator	and with no guess at our direction. The moon rose at last and found us still on the road; it was in its last quarter,
	narrator	and was long beset with clouds; but after awhile shone out and showed me many dark heads of mountains,
	narrator	and was reflected far underneath us on the narrow arm of a sea-loch. At this sight we both paused: I struck with wonder to find myself so high and walking (as it seemed to me) upon clouds; Alan to make sure of his direction.
	narrator	Seemingly he was well pleased, and he must certainly have judged us out of ear-shot of all our enemies; for throughout the rest of our night-march he beguiled the way with whistling of many tunes,
	narrator	warlike, merry, plaintive; reel tunes that made the foot go faster; tunes of my own south country that made me fain to be home from my adventures; and all these,
	narrator	on the great, dark, desert mountains, making company upon the way.
