	narrator	Before we had done cleaning out the round-house, a breeze sprang up from a little to the east of north.
	narrator	This blew off the rain and brought out the sun. And here I must explain; and the reader would do well to look at a map.
	narrator	On the day when the fog fell and we ran down Alan's boat, we had been running through the Little Minch.
	narrator	At dawn after the battle, we lay becalmed to the east of the Isle of Canna or between that and Isle Eriska in the chain of the Long Island.
	narrator	Now to get from there to the Linnhe Loch, the straight course was through the narrows of the Sound of Mull.
	narrator	But the captain had no chart; he was afraid to trust his brig so deep among the islands; and the wind serving well,
	narrator	he preferred to go by west of Tiree and come up under the southern coast of the great Isle of Mull.
	narrator	All day the breeze held in the same point, and rather freshened than died down; and towards afternoon,
	narrator	a swell began to set in from round the outer Hebrides. Our course, to go round about the inner isles,
	narrator	was to the west of south, so that at first we had this swell upon our beam,
	narrator	and were much rolled about. But after nightfall, when we had turned the end of Tiree and began to head more to the east,
	narrator	the sea came right astern. Meanwhile, the early part of the day, before the swell came up,
	narrator	was very pleasant; sailing, as we were, in a bright sunshine and with many mountainous islands upon different sides.
	narrator	Alan and I sat in the round-house with the doors open on each side (the wind being straight astern),
	narrator	and smoked a pipe or two of the captain's fine tobacco. It was at this time we heard each other's stories,
	narrator	which was the more important to me, as I gained some knowledge of that wild Highland country on which I was so soon to land.
	narrator	In those days, so close on the back of the great rebellion, it was needful a man should know what he was doing when he went upon the heather.
	narrator	It was I that showed the example, telling him all my misfortune; which he heard with great good-nature.
	david	Why,
	alan breck stewart	I hate all that were of that name.
	david	Why,
	alan breck stewart	he is a man you should be proud to give your hand to. I know nothing I would help a Campbell to,
	alan breck stewart	unless it was a leaden bullet. I would hunt all of that name like blackcocks. If I lay dying,
	alan breck stewart	I would crawl upon my knees to my chamber window for a shot at one.
	david	Why, Alan,
	alan breck stewart	what ails ye at the Campbells? Well, ye ken very well that I am an Appin Stewart,
	alan breck stewart	and the Campbells have long harried and wasted those of my name; ay, and got lands of us by treachery--but never with the sword,
	alan breck stewart	he cried loudly, and with the word brought down his fist upon the table.
	david	You that are so wasteful of your buttons,
	alan breck stewart	I can hardly think you would be a good judge of business. Ah! I got my wastefulness from the same man I got the buttons from; and that was my poor father,
	alan breck stewart	Duncan Stewart, grace be to him! He was the prettiest man of his kindred; and the best swordsman in the Hielands,
	alan breck stewart	David, and that is the same as to say, in all the world, I should ken,
	alan breck stewart	for it was him that taught me. He was in the Black Watch, when first it was mustered; and,
	alan breck stewart	like other gentlemen privates, had a gillie at his back to carry his firelock for him on the march.
	alan breck stewart	Well, the King, it appears, was wishful to see Hieland swordsmanship; and my father and three more were chosen out and sent to London town,
	alan breck stewart	to let him see it at the best. So they were had into the palace and showed the whole art of the sword for two hours at a stretch,
	alan breck stewart	before King George and Queen Carline, and the Butcher Cumberland, and many more of whom I havenae mind.
	alan breck stewart	And when they were through, the King (for all he was a rank usurper) spoke them fair and gave each man three guineas in his hand.
	alan breck stewart	Now, as they were going out of the palace, they had a porter's lodge to go by; and it came in on my father,
	alan breck stewart	as he was perhaps the first private Hieland gentleman that had ever gone by that door,
	alan breck stewart	it was right he should give the poor porter a proper notion of their quality. So he gives the King's three guineas into the man's hand,
	alan breck stewart	as if it was his common custom; the three others that came behind him did the same; and there they were on the street,
	alan breck stewart	never a penny the better for their pains. Some say it was one, that was the first to fee the King's porter; and some say it was another; but the truth of it is,
	alan breck stewart	that it was Duncan Stewart, as I am willing to prove with either sword or pistol.
	alan breck stewart	And that was the father that I had, God rest him!
	david	I think he was not the man to leave you rich,
	alan breck stewart	That's true, He left me my breeks to cover me, and little besides. And that was how I came to enlist,
	alan breck stewart	which was a black spot upon my character at the best of times, and would still be a sore job for me if I fell among the red-coats.
	david	What,
	alan breck stewart	were you in the English army? That was I, But I deserted to the right side at Preston Pans--and that's some comfort.
	david	I could scarcely share this view: holding desertion under arms for an unpardonable fault in honour.
	david	But for all I was so young, I was wiser than say my thought. Dear, dear,
	alan breck stewart	the punishment is death. Ay, if they got hands on me, it would be a short shrift and a lang tow for Alan!
	alan breck stewart	But I have the King of France's commission in my pocket, which would aye be some protection.
	david	I misdoubt it much,
	alan breck stewart	I have doubts mysel', said Alan drily.
	narrator	- Alan Breck Stewart (male): A Highland clansman and former soldier in the English army who deserted to the Jacobite side.
	narrator	He is a member of the Appin Stewart clan, known for his swordsmanship and fierce loyalty to his chief Ardshiel.
	narrator	He has a deep hatred for the Campbell clan, particularly Colin Campbell of Glenure known as the Red Fox.
	narrator	He is described as skilled in music, poetry, fishing, and fencing. - David (male): The narrator of the story,
	narrator	a young man who is traveling with Alan Breck Stewart. He is described as a Whig and relatively inexperienced,
	narrator	being 'so young' but wiser than his thoughts suggest. He shows respect for Alan's character and is curious about Highland affairs.
	narrator	- Duncan Stewart (*male): Alan Breck's father, a former soldier in the Black Watch who was known for his swordsmanship and had been chosen to demonstrate Highland sword skills before King George and Queen Caroline in London.
	narrator	- Ardshiel (*male): The chief of the Appin Stewart clan, who was forced into exile after the defeat at Culloden.
	narrator	He is described as a man of great stature and noble blood, now living in France but maintaining his clan's loyalty.
	narrator	- James Stewart (*male): A relative of Ardshiel and Alan's father's friend, who serves as the agent for collecting rents from the clan members to support Ardshiel in exile.
	narrator	He is described as a man who manages the financial affairs of the clan. - Colin Campbell of Glenure (*male): Known as the Red Fox,
	narrator	a Campbell who has been appointed King's factor on Appin lands. He is described as having red hair and being a bitter enemy of the Stewart clan,
	narrator	who seeks to drive out loyal Stewart tenants. - Sheamus (*male): A nickname for James Stewart,
	narrator	who is described as Ardshiel's agent and the person who manages the collection of rents from the clan members.
	narrator	PASSAGE:
	david	And, good heaven, man, you that are a condemned rebel, and a deserter, and a man of the French King's--what tempts ye back into this country?
	david	It's a braving of Providence.
	alan breck stewart	Tut! I have been back every year since forty-six!
	david	And what brings ye, man?
	alan breck stewart	Well, ye see, I weary for my friends and country, said he. "France is a braw place,
	alan breck stewart	nae doubt; but I weary for the heather and the deer. And then I have bit things that I attend to.
	alan breck stewart	Whiles I pick up a few lads to serve the King of France: recruits, ye see; and that's aye a little money.
	alan breck stewart	But the heart of the matter is the business of my chief, Ardshiel.
	david	I thought they called your chief Appin,
	alan breck stewart	Ay, but Ardshiel is the captain of the clan, said he, which scarcely cleared my mind.
	alan breck stewart	"Ye see, David, he that was all his life so great a man, and come of the blood and bearing the name of kings,
	alan breck stewart	is now brought down to live in a French town like a poor and private person.
	alan breck stewart	He that had four hundred swords at his whistle, I have seen, with these eyes of mine,
	alan breck stewart	buying butter in the market-place, and taking it home in a kale-leaf. This is not only a pain but a disgrace to us of his family and clan.
	alan breck stewart	There are the bairns forby, the children and the hope of Appin, that must be learned their letters and how to hold a sword,
	alan breck stewart	in that far country. Now, the tenants of Appin have to pay a rent to King George; but their hearts are staunch,
	alan breck stewart	they are true to their chief; and what with love and a bit of pressure, and maybe a threat or two,
	alan breck stewart	the poor folk scrape up a second rent for Ardshiel. Well, David, I'm the hand that carries it."
	alan breck stewart	And he struck the belt about his body, so that the guineas rang.
	david	Do they pay both?
	alan breck stewart	Ay, David, both, says he.
	david	What! two rents?
	alan breck stewart	Ay, David, said he. "I told a different tale to yon captain man; but this is the truth of it.
	alan breck stewart	And it's wonderful to me how little pressure is needed. But that's the handiwork of my good kinsman and my father's friend,
	alan breck stewart	James of the Glens: James Stewart, that is: Ardshiel's half-brother. He it is that gets the money in,
	alan breck stewart	and does the management.
	narrator	This was the first time I heard the name of that James Stewart, who was afterwards so famous at the time of his hanging.
	narrator	But I took little heed at the moment, for all my mind was occupied with the generosity of these poor Highlanders.
	david	I call it noble, I cried. "I'm a Whig, or little better; but I call it noble.
	alan breck stewart	Ay said he, "ye're a Whig, but ye're a gentleman; and that's what does it. Now,
	alan breck stewart	if ye were one of the cursed race of Campbell, ye would gnash your teeth to hear tell of it.
	alan breck stewart	If ye were the Red Fox..." And at that name, his teeth shut together, and he ceased speaking.
	alan breck stewart	I have seen many a grim face, but never a grimmer than Alan's when he had named the Red Fox.
	david	And who is the Red Fox?
	alan breck stewart	Who is he? Well, and I'll tell you that. When the men of the clans were broken at Culloden,
	alan breck stewart	and the good cause went down, and the horses rode over the fetlocks in the best blood of the north,
	alan breck stewart	Ardshiel had to flee like a poor deer upon the mountains--he and his lady and his bairns.
	alan breck stewart	A sair job we had of it before we got him shipped; and while he still lay in the heather,
	alan breck stewart	the English rogues, that couldnae come at his life, were striking at his rights. They stripped him of his powers; they stripped him of his lands; they plucked the weapons from the hands of his clansmen,
	alan breck stewart	that had borne arms for thirty centuries; ay, and the very clothes off their backs--so that it's now a sin to wear a tartan plaid,
	alan breck stewart	and a man may be cast into a gaol if he has but a kilt about his legs.
	alan breck stewart	One thing they couldnae kill. That was the love the clansmen bore their chief. These guineas are the proof of it.
	alan breck stewart	And now, in there steps a man, a Campbell, red-headed Colin of Glenure----
	david	Is that him you call the Red Fox?
	alan breck stewart	Will ye bring me his brush? cries Alan, fiercely. "Ay, that's the man. In he steps,
	alan breck stewart	and gets papers from King George, to be so-called King's factor on the lands of Appin.
	alan breck stewart	And at first he sings small, and is hail-fellow-well-met with Sheamus--that's James of the Glens, my chieftain's agent.
	alan breck stewart	But by-and-by, that came to his ears that I have just told you; how the poor commons of Appin,
	alan breck stewart	the farmers and the crofters and the boumen, were wringing their very plaids to get a second rent,
	alan breck stewart	and send it over-seas for Ardshiel and his poor bairns. What was it ye called it,
	alan breck stewart	when I told ye?
	david	I called it noble, Alan,
	alan breck stewart	said I. And you little better than a common Whig! cries Alan. "But when it came to Colin Roy,
	alan breck stewart	the black Campbell blood in him ran wild. He sat gnashing his teeth at the wine table.
	alan breck stewart	What! should a Stewart get a bite of bread, and him not be able to prevent it?
	alan breck stewart	Ah! Red Fox, if ever I hold you at a gun's end, the Lord have pity upon ye!"
	alan breck stewart	(Alan stopped to swallow down his anger.) "Well, David, what does he do? He declares all the farms to let.
	alan breck stewart	And, thinks he, in his black heart, 'I'll soon get other tenants that'll overbid these Stewarts,
	alan breck stewart	and Maccolls, and Macrobs' (for these are all names in my clan, David); 'and then,' thinks he,
	alan breck stewart	'Ardshiel will have to hold his bonnet on a French roadside.
	david	Well, said I, "what followed?
	alan breck stewart	Alan laid down his pipe, which he had long since suffered to go out, and set his two hands upon his knees.
	alan breck stewart	Ay, said he, "ye'll never guess that! For these same Stewarts, and Maccolls, and Macrobs (that had two rents to pay,
	alan breck stewart	one to King George by stark force, and one to Ardshiel by natural kindness) offered him a better price than any Campbell in all broad Scotland; and far he sent seeking them--as far as to the sides of Clyde and the cross of Edinburgh--seeking,
	alan breck stewart	and fleeching, and begging them to come, where there was a Stewart to be starved and a red-headed hound of a Campbell to be pleased!
	david	Well, Alan, said I, "that is a strange story, and a fine one, too. And Whig as I may be,
	david	I am glad the man was beaten.
	alan breck stewart	Him beaten?
	narrator	echoed Alan.
	alan breck stewart	It's little ye ken of Campbells, and less of the Red Fox. Him beaten? No: nor will be,
	alan breck stewart	till his blood's on the hillside! But if the day comes, David man, that I can find time and leisure for a bit of hunting,
	alan breck stewart	there grows not enough heather in all Scotland to hide him from my vengeance!
	david	Man Alan, ye are neither very wise nor very Christian to blow off so many words of anger.
	david	They will do the man ye call the Fox no harm, and yourself no good. Tell me your tale plainly out.
	david	What did he next?
	alan breck stewart	And that's a good observe, David, Troth and indeed, they will do him no harm; the more's the pity!
	alan breck stewart	And barring that about Christianity (of which my opinion is quite otherwise, or I would be nae Christian),
	alan breck stewart	I am much of your mind.
	david	Opinion here or opinion there, it's a kent thing that Christianity forbids revenge.
	alan breck stewart	Ay it's well seen it was a Campbell taught ye! It would be a convenient world for them and their sort,
	alan breck stewart	if there was no such a thing as a lad and a gun behind a heather bush!
	alan breck stewart	But that's nothing to the point. This is what he did.
	david	Ay come to that.
	alan breck stewart	Well, David, since he couldnae be rid of the loyal commons by fair means, he swore he would be rid of them by foul.
	alan breck stewart	Ardshiel was to starve: that was the thing he aimed at. And since them that fed him in his exile wouldnae be bought out--right or wrong,
	alan breck stewart	he would drive them out. Therefore he sent for lawyers, and papers, and red-coats to stand at his back.
	alan breck stewart	And the kindly folk of that country must all pack and tramp, every father's son out of his father's house,
	alan breck stewart	and out of the place where he was bred and fed, and played when he was a callant.
	alan breck stewart	And who are to succeed them? Bare-leggit beggars! King George is to whistle for his rents; he maun dow with less; he can spread his butter thinner: what cares Red Colin?
	alan breck stewart	If he can hurt Ardshiel, he has his wish; if he can pluck the meat from my chieftain's table,
	alan breck stewart	and the bit toys out of his children's hands, he will gang hame singing to Glenure!
	david	Let me have a word, Be sure, if they take less rents, be sure Government has a finger in the pie.
	david	It's not this Campbell's fault, man--it's his orders. And if ye killed this Colin to-morrow, what better would ye be?
	david	There would be another factor in his shoes, as fast as spur can drive.
	alan breck stewart	Ye're a good lad in a fight, but, man! ye have Whig blood in ye! It's easier than ye would think,
	alan breck stewart	A bare hillside (ye see) is like all one road; if there's a sentry at one place,
	alan breck stewart	ye just go by another. And then the heather's a great help. And everywhere there are friends'
	alan breck stewart	houses and friends' byres and haystacks. And besides, when folk talk of a country covered with troops,
	alan breck stewart	it's but a kind of a byword at the best. A soldier covers nae mair of it than his boot-soles.
	alan breck stewart	I have fished a water with a sentry on the other side of the brae, and killed a fine trout; and I have sat in a heather bush within six feet of another,
	alan breck stewart	and learned a real bonny tune from his whistling. This was it, and whistled me the air.
	alan breck stewart	And then, besides, it's no sae bad now as it was in forty-six. The Hielands are what they call pacified.
	alan breck stewart	Small wonder, with never a gun or a sword left from Cantyre to Cape Wrath, but what tenty folk have hidden in their thatch!
	alan breck stewart	But what I would like to ken, David, is just how long? Not long, ye would think,
	alan breck stewart	with men like Ardshiel in exile and men like the Red Fox sitting birling the wine and oppressing the poor at home.
	alan breck stewart	But it's a kittle thing to decide what folk'll bear, and what they will not. Or why would Red Colin be riding his horse all over my poor country of Appin,
	alan breck stewart	and never a pretty lad to put a bullet in him?
	narrator	And with this Alan fell into a muse, and for a long time sate very sad and silent.
	narrator	I will add the rest of what I have to say about my friend, that he was skilled in all kinds of music,
	narrator	but principally pipe-music; was a well-considered poet in his own tongue; had read several books both in French and English; was a dead shot,
	narrator	a good angler, and an excellent fencer with the small sword as well as with his own particular weapon.
	narrator	For his faults, they were on his face, and I now knew them all. But the worst of them,
	narrator	his childish propensity to take offence and to pick quarrels, he greatly laid aside in my case,
	narrator	out of regard for the battle of the round-house. But whether it was because I had done well myself,
	narrator	or because I had been a witness of his own much greater prowess, is more than I can tell.
	narrator	For though he had a great taste for courage in other men, yet he admired it most in Alan Breck.
