	narrator	I COME TO MY JOURNEY’S END On the forenoon of the second day, coming to the top of a hill,
	narrator	I saw all the country fall away before me down to the sea; and in the midst of this descent,
	narrator	on a long ridge, the city of Edinburgh smoking like a kiln. There was a flag upon the castle,
	narrator	and ships moving or lying anchored in the firth; both of which, for as far away as they were,
	narrator	I could distinguish clearly; and both brought my country heart into my mouth. Presently after, I came by a house where a shepherd lived,
	narrator	and got a rough direction for the neighbourhood of Cramond; and so, from one to another,
	narrator	worked my way to the westward of the capital by Colinton, till I came out upon the Glasgow road.
	narrator	And there, to my great pleasure and wonder, I beheld a regiment marching to the fifes,
	narrator	every foot in time; an old red-faced general on a grey horse at the one end,
	narrator	and at the other the company of Grenadiers, with their Pope’s-hats. The pride of life seemed to mount into my brain at the sight of the red coats and the hearing of that merry music.
	narrator	A little farther on, and I was told I was in Cramond parish, and began to substitute in my inquiries the name of the house of Shaws.
	narrator	It was a word that seemed to surprise those of whom I sought my way. At first I thought the plainness of my appearance,
	narrator	in my country habit, and that all dusty from the road, consorted ill with the greatness of the place to which I was bound.
	narrator	But after two, or maybe three, had given me the same look and the same answer,
	narrator	I began to take it in my head there was something strange about the Shaws itself.
	narrator	The better to set this fear at rest, I changed the form of my inquiries; and spying an honest fellow coming along a lane on the shaft of his cart,
	narrator	I asked him if he had ever heard tell of a house they called the house of Shaws.
	the carter	Ay
	david balfour	What for? It's a great house?
	the carter	Doubtless, the house is a big, muckle house.
	david balfour	Ay, but the folk that are in it?
	the carter	Folk? Are ye daft? There's nae folk there--to call folk.
	david balfour	What? not Mr. Ebenezer?
	the carter	Ou, ay, there's the laird, to be sure, if it's him you're wanting. What'll like be your business,
	the carter	mannie?
	david balfour	I was led to think that I would get a situation, looking as modest as I could.
	the carter	What? cries the carter, in so sharp a note that his very horse started; and then,
	the carter	Well, mannie, he added, it's nane of my affairs; but ye seem a decent-spoken lad; and if ye'll take a word from me,
	the carter	ye'll keep clear of the Shaws.
	narrator	The next person I came across was a dapper little man in a beautiful white wig,
	narrator	whom I saw to be a barber on his rounds; and knowing well that barbers were great gossips,
	narrator	I asked him plainly what sort of a man was Mr. Balfour of the Shaws.
	the barber	Hoot, hoot, hoot, nae kind of a man, nae kind of a man at all; and began to ask me very shrewdly what my business was; but I was more than a match for him at that,
	the barber	and he went on to his next customer no wiser than he came.
	narrator	I cannot well describe the blow this dealt to my illusions. The more indistinct the accusations were,
	narrator	the less I liked them, for they left the wider field to fancy. What kind of a great house was this,
	narrator	that all the parish should start and stare to be asked the way to it? or what sort of a gentleman,
	narrator	that his ill-fame should be thus current on the wayside? If an hour's walking would have brought me back to Essendean,
	narrator	I had left my adventure then and there, and returned to Mr. Campbell's. But when I had come so far a way already,
	narrator	mere shame would not suffer me to desist till I had put the matter to the touch of proof; I was bound,
	narrator	out of mere self-respect, to carry it through; and little as I liked the sound of what I heard,
	narrator	and slow as I began to travel, I still kept asking my way and still kept advancing.
	narrator	It was drawing on to sundown when I met a stout, dark, sour-looking woman coming trudging down a hill; and she,
	narrator	when I had put my usual question, turned sharp about, accompanied me back to the summit she had just left,
	narrator	and pointed to a great bulk of building standing very bare upon a green in the bottom of the next valley.
	narrator	The country was pleasant round about, running in low hills, pleasantly watered and wooded, and the crops,
	narrator	to my eyes, wonderfully good; but the house itself appeared to be a kind of ruin; no road led up to it; no smoke arose from any of the chimneys; nor was there any semblance of a garden.
	narrator	My heart sank.
	david balfour	That!
	the stout, dark, sour-looking woman	That is the house of Shaws! Blood built it; blood stopped the building of it; blood shall bring it down.
	the stout, dark, sour-looking woman	See here! I spit upon the ground, and crack my thumb at it! Black be its fall!
	the stout, dark, sour-looking woman	If ye see the laird, tell him what ye hear; tell him this makes the twelve hunner and nineteen time that Jennet Clouston has called down the curse on him and his house,
	the stout, dark, sour-looking woman	byre and stable, man, guest, and master, wife, miss, or bairn--black, black be their fall! And the woman,
	the stout, dark, sour-looking woman	whose voice had risen to a kind of eldritch sing-song, turned with a skip, and was gone.
	narrator	I stood where she left me, with my hair on end. In those days folk still believed in witches and trembled at a curse; and this one,
	narrator	falling so pat, like a wayside omen, to arrest me ere I carried out my purpose,
	narrator	took the pith out of my legs. I sat me down and stared at the house of Shaws.
	narrator	The more I looked, the pleasanter that country-side appeared; being all set with hawthorn bushes full of flowers; the fields dotted with sheep; a fine flight of rooks in the sky; and every sign of a kind soil and climate; and yet the barrack in the midst of it went
	narrator	sore against my fancy. Country folk went by from the fields as I sat there on the side of the ditch,
	narrator	but I lacked the spirit to give them a good-e'en. At last the sun went down,
	narrator	and then, right up against the yellow sky, I saw a scroll of smoke go mounting,
	narrator	not much thicker, as it seemed to me, than the smoke of a candle; but still there it was,
	narrator	and meant a fire, and warmth, and cookery, and some living inhabitant that must have lit it; and this comforted my heart.
	narrator	So I set forward by a little faint track in the grass that led in my direction.
	narrator	It was very faint indeed to be the only way to a place of habitation; yet I saw no other.
	narrator	Presently it brought me to stone uprights, with an unroofed lodge beside them, and coats of arms upon the top.
	narrator	A main entrance it was plainly meant to be, but never finished; instead of gates of wrought iron,
	narrator	a pair of hurdles were tied across with a straw rope; and as there were no park walls,
	narrator	nor any sign of avenue, the track that I was following passed on the right hand of the pillars,
	narrator	and went wandering on toward the house. The nearer I got to that, the drearier it appeared.
	narrator	It seemed like the one wing of a house that had never been finished. What should have been the inner end stood open on the upper floors,
	narrator	and showed against the sky with steps and stairs of uncompleted masonry. Many of the windows were unglazed,
	narrator	and bats flew in and out like doves out of a dove-cote. The night had begun to fall as I got close; and in three of the lower windows,
	narrator	which were very high up and narrow, and well barred, the changing light of a little fire began to glimmer.
	narrator	Was this the palace I had been coming to? Was it within these walls that I was to seek new friends and begin great fortunes?
	narrator	Why, in my father's house on Essen-Waterside, the fire and the bright lights would show a mile away,
	narrator	and the door open to a beggar's knock! I came forward cautiously, and giving ear as I came,
	narrator	heard some one rattling with dishes, and a little dry, eager cough that came in fits; but there was no sound of speech,
	narrator	and not a dog barked. The door, as well as I could see it in the dim light,
	narrator	was a great piece of wood all studded with nails; and I lifted my hand with a faint heart under my jacket,
	narrator	and knocked once. Then I stood and waited. The house had fallen into a dead silence; a whole minute passed away,
	narrator	and nothing stirred but the bats overhead. I knocked again, and hearkened again. By this time my ears had grown so accustomed to the quiet,
	narrator	that I could hear the ticking of the clock inside as it slowly counted out the seconds; but whoever was in that house kept deadly still,
	narrator	and must have held his breath. I was in two minds whether to run away; but anger got the upper hand,
	narrator	and I began instead to rain kicks and buffets on the door, and to shout out aloud for Mr. Balfour.
	narrator	I was in full career, when I heard the cough right overhead, and jumping back and looking up,
	narrator	beheld a man's head in a tall nightcap, and the bell mouth of a blunderbuss, at one of the first-storey windows.
	the man with the blunderbuss	It's loaded.
	david balfour	I have come here with a letter, to Mr. Ebenezer Balfour of Shaws. Is he here?
	the man with the blunderbuss	From whom is it?
	david balfour	That is neither here nor there.
	the man with the blunderbuss	Well, ye can put it down upon the doorstep, and be off with ye.
	david balfour	I will do no such thing. I will deliver it into Mr. Balfour's hands, as it was meant I should.
	david balfour	It is a letter of introduction.
	the man with the blunderbuss	A what?
	david balfour	I repeated what I had said.
	the man with the blunderbuss	Who are ye, yourself?
	david balfour	I am not ashamed of my name. They call me David Balfour.
	the man with the blunderbuss	Is your father dead?
	david balfour	Ay, he'll be dead, no doubt; and that'll be what brings ye chapping to my door.
	the man with the blunderbuss	Well, man, I'll let ye in;
	narrator	and he disappeared from the window.
