	narrator	So far as I was concerned myself, I had come to port; but I had still Alan,
	narrator	to whom I was so much beholden, on my hands; and I felt besides a heavy charge in the matter of the murder and James of the Glens.
	narrator	On both these heads I unbosomed to Rankeillor the next morning, walking to and fro about six of the clock before the house of Shaws,
	narrator	and with nothing in view but the fields and woods that had been my ancestors’ and were now mine.
	narrator	Even as I spoke on these grave subjects, my eye would take a glad bit of a run over the prospect,
	narrator	and my heart jump with pride. About my clear duty to my friend, the lawyer had no doubt.
	narrator	I must help him out of the county at whatever risk; but in the case of James,
	narrator	he was of a different mind.
	rankeillor	Mr. Thomson, is one thing, Mr. Thomson’s kinsman quite another. I know little of the facts,
	rankeillor	but I gather that a great noble (whom we will call, if you like, the D. of A.) has some concern and is even supposed to feel some animosity in the matter.
	rankeillor	The D. of A. is doubtless an excellent nobleman; but, Mr. David, _timeo qui nocuere deos_.
	rankeillor	If you interfere to balk his vengeance, you should remember there is one way to shut your testimony out; and that is to put you in the dock.
	rankeillor	There, you would be in the same pickle as Mr. Thomson’s kinsman. You will object that you are innocent; well,
	rankeillor	but so is he. And to be tried for your life before a Highland jury, on a Highland quarrel and with a Highland Judge upon the bench,
	rankeillor	would be a brief transition to the gallows.
	narrator	Now I had made all these reasonings before and found no very good reply to them; so I put on all the simplicity I could.
	narrator	"In that case, sir," said I, "I would just have to be hanged--would I not?"
	rankeillor	My dear boy, go in God’s name, and do what you think is right. It is a poor thought that at my time of life I should be advising you to choose the safe and shameful; and I take it back with an apology.
	rankeillor	Go and do your duty; and be hanged, if you must, like a gentleman. There are worse things in the world than to be hanged.
	narrator	"Not many, sir," said I, smiling.
	rankeillor	Why, yes, sir, very many. And it would be ten times better for your uncle (to go no farther afield) if he were dangling decently upon a gibbet.
	narrator	Thereupon he turned into the house (still in a great fervour of mind, so that I saw I had pleased him heartily) and there he wrote me two letters,
	narrator	making his comments on them as he wrote.
	rankeillor	This, is to my bankers, the British Linen Company, placing a credit to your name. Consult Mr. Thomson,
	rankeillor	he will know of ways; and you, with this credit, can supply the means. I trust you will be a good husband of your money; but in the affair of a friend like Mr. Thomson,
	rankeillor	I would be even prodigal. Then for his kinsman, there is no better way than that you should seek the Advocate,
	rankeillor	tell him your tale, and offer testimony; whether he may take it or not, is quite another matter,
	rankeillor	and will turn on the D. of A. Now, that you may reach the Lord Advocate well recommended,
	rankeillor	I give you here a letter to a namesake of your own, the learned Mr. Balfour of Pilrig,
	rankeillor	a man whom I esteem. It will look better that you should be presented by one of your own name; and the laird of Pilrig is much looked up to in the Faculty and stands well with Lord Advocate Grant.
	rankeillor	I would not trouble him, if I were you, with any particulars; and (do you know?) I think it would be needless to refer to Mr. Thomson.
	rankeillor	Form yourself upon the laird, he is a good model; when you deal with the Advocate,
	rankeillor	be discreet; and in all these matters, may the Lord guide you, Mr. David!
	narrator	Thereupon he took his farewell, and set out with Torrance for the Ferry, while Alan and I turned our faces for the city of Edinburgh.
	narrator	As we went by the footpath and beside the gateposts and the unfinished lodge, we kept looking back at the house of my fathers.
	narrator	It stood there, bare and great and smokeless, like a place not lived in; only in one of the top windows,
	narrator	there was the peak of a nightcap bobbing up and down and back and forward, like the head of a rabbit from a burrow.
	narrator	I had little welcome when I came, and less kindness while I stayed; but at least I was watched as I went away.
	narrator	Alan and I went slowly forward upon our way, having little heart either to walk or speak.
	narrator	The same thought was uppermost in both, that we were near the time of our parting; and remembrance of all the bygone days sate upon us sorely.
	narrator	We talked indeed of what should be done; and it was resolved that Alan should keep to the county,
	narrator	biding now here, now there, but coming once in the day to a particular place where I might be able to communicate with him,
	narrator	either in my own person or by messenger. In the meanwhile, I was to seek out a lawyer,
	narrator	who was an Appin Stewart, and a man therefore to be wholly trusted; and it should be his part to find a ship and to arrange for Alan’s safe embarkation.
	narrator	No sooner was this business done, than the words seemed to leave us; and though I would seek to jest with Alan under the name of Mr. Thomson,
	narrator	and he with me on my new clothes and my estate, you could feel very well that we were nearer tears than laughter.
	narrator	We came the by-way over the hill of Corstorphine; and when we got near to the place called Rest-and-be-Thankful,
	narrator	and looked down on Corstorphine bogs and over to the city and the castle on the hill,
	narrator	we both stopped, for we both knew without a word said that we had come to where our ways parted.
	narrator	Here he repeated to me once again what had been agreed upon between us: the address of the lawyer,
	narrator	the daily hour at which Alan might be found, and the signals that were to be made by any that came seeking him.
	narrator	Then I gave what money I had (a guinea or two of Rankeillor’s) so that he should not starve in the meanwhile; and then we stood a space,
	narrator	and looked over at Edinburgh in silence.
	alan	Well, good-bye, and held out his left hand.
	narrator	Good-bye, said I, and gave the hand a little grasp, and went off down hill. Neither one of us looked the other in the face,
	narrator	nor so long as he was in my view did I take one back glance at the friend I was leaving.
	narrator	But as I went on my way to the city, I felt so lost and lonesome,
	narrator	that I could have found it in my heart to sit down by the dyke, and cry and weep like any baby.
	narrator	It was coming near noon when I passed in by the West Kirk and the Grassmarket into the streets of the capital.
	narrator	The huge height of the buildings, running up to ten and fifteen storeys, the narrow arched entries that continually vomited passengers,
	narrator	the wares of the merchants in their windows, the hubbub and endless stir, the foul smells and the fine clothes,
	narrator	and a hundred other particulars too small to mention, struck me into a kind of stupor of surprise,
	narrator	so that I let the crowd carry me to and fro; and yet all the time what I was thinking of was Alan at Rest-and-be-Thankful; and all the time (although you would think I would not choose but be delighted with these braws and novelties) there was a cold gnawing
	narrator	in my inside like a remorse for something wrong. The hand of Providence brought me in my drifting to the very doors of the British Linen Company's bank.
