	narrator	Night fell as we were walking, and the clouds, which had broken up in the afternoon,
	narrator	settled in and thickened, so that it fell, for the season of the year, extremely dark.
	narrator	The way we went was over rough mountainsides; and though Alan pushed on with an assured manner,
	narrator	I could by no means see how he directed himself. At last, about half-past ten of the clock,
	narrator	we came to the top of a brae, and saw lights below us. It seemed a house door stood open and let out a beam of fire and candle-light; and all round the house and steading five or six persons were moving hurriedly about,
	narrator	each carrying a lighted brand.
	alan	James must have tint his wits If this was the soldiers instead of you and me,
	alan	he would be in a bonny mess. But I dare say he'll have a sentry on the road,
	alan	and he would ken well enough no soldiers would find the way that we came.
	narrator	Hereupon he whistled three times, in a particular manner. It was strange to see how, at the first sound of it,
	narrator	all the moving torches came to a stand, as if the bearers were affrighted; and how,
	narrator	at the third, the bustle began again as before. Having thus set folks' minds at rest,
	narrator	we came down the brae, and were met at the yard gate (for this place was like a well-doing farm) by a tall,
	narrator	handsome man of more than fifty, who cried out to Alan in the Gaelic.
	alan	James Stewart I will ask ye to speak in Scotch, for here is a young gentleman with me that has nane of the other.
	alan	This is him, a young gentleman of the Lowlands, and a laird in his country too,
	alan	but I am thinking it will be the better for his health if we give his name the go-by.
	narrator	James of the Glens turned to me for a moment, and greeted me courteously enough; the next he had turned to Alan.
	james stewart	This has been a dreadful accident It will bring trouble on the country. Hoots!
	alan	ye must take the sour with the sweet, man. Colin Roy is dead, and be thankful for that!
	james stewart	Ay and by my troth, I wish he was alive again! It's all very fine to blow and boast beforehand; but now it's done,
	james stewart	Alan; and who's to bear the wyte of it? The accident fell out in Appin--mind ye that,
	james stewart	Alan; it's Appin that must pay; and I am a man that has a family.
	narrator	While this was going on I looked about me at the servants. Some were on ladders,
	narrator	digging in the thatch of the house or the farm buildings, from which they brought out guns,
	narrator	swords, and different weapons of war; others carried them away; and by the sound of mattock blows from somewhere farther down the brae,
	narrator	I suppose they buried them. Though they were all so busy, there prevailed no kind of order in their efforts; men struggled together for the same gun and ran into each other with their burning torches; and James was continually turning about from his talk with Alan,
	narrator	to cry out orders which were apparently never understood. The faces in the torchlight were like those of people overborne with hurry and panic; and though none spoke above his breath,
	narrator	their speech sounded both anxious and angry. It was about this time that a lassie came out of the house carrying a pack or bundle; and it has often made me smile to think how Alan's instinct awoke at the mere sight of it.
	alan	What's that the lassie has?
	james stewart	We're just setting the house in order, Alan, They'll search Appin with candles, and we must have all things straight.
	james stewart	We're digging the bit guns and swords into the moss, ye see; and these, I am thinking,
	james stewart	will be your ain French clothes. We'll be to bury them, I believe.
	alan	Bury my French clothes!
	narrator	cried Alan.
	alan	Troth, no!
	narrator	And he laid hold upon the packet and retired into the barn to shift himself, recommending me in the meanwhile to his kinsman.
	narrator	James carried me accordingly into the kitchen, and sat down with me at table, smiling and talking at first in a very hospitable manner.
	narrator	But presently the gloom returned upon him; he sat frowning and biting his fingers; only remembered me from time to time; and then gave me but a word or two and a poor smile,
	narrator	and back into his private terrors. His wife sat by the fire and wept, with her face in her hands; his eldest son was crouched upon the floor,
	narrator	running over a great mass of papers and now and again setting one alight and burning it to the bitter end; all the while a servant lass with a red face was rummaging about the room,
	narrator	in a blind hurry of fear, and whimpering as she went; and every now and again one of the men would thrust in his face from the yard,
	narrator	and cry for orders.
	james stewart	I am but poor company altogether, sir, but I can think of nothing but this dreadful accident,
	james stewart	and the trouble it is like to bring upon quite innocent persons.
	narrator	A little after he observed his son burning a paper which he thought should have been kept; and at that his excitement burst out so that it was painful to witness.
	narrator	He struck the lad repeatedly.
	the young man	Are you gone gyte? Do you wish to hang your father?
	narrator	and forgetful of my presence, carried on at him a long time together in the Gaelic,
	narrator	the young man answering nothing; only the wife, at the name of hanging, throwing her apron over her face and sobbing out louder than before.
	narrator	This was all wretched for a stranger like myself to hear and see; and I was right glad when Alan returned,
	narrator	looking like himself in his fine French clothes, though (to be sure) they were now grown almost too battered and withered to deserve the name of fine.
	narrator	I was then taken out in my turn by another of the sons, and given that change of clothing of which I had stood so long in need,
	narrator	and a pair of Highland brogues made of deer-leather, rather strange at first, but after a little practice very easy to the feet.
	narrator	By the time I came back Alan must have told his story; for it seemed understood that I was to fly with him,
	narrator	and they were all busy upon our equipment. They gave us each a sword and pistols,
	narrator	though I professed my inability to use the former; and with these, and some ammunition, a bag of oatmeal,
	narrator	an iron pan, and a bottle of right French brandy, we were ready for the heather.
	narrator	Money, indeed, was lacking. I had about two guineas left; Alan's belt having been despatched by another hand,
	narrator	that trusty messenger had no more than seventeen-pence to his whole fortune; and as for James,
	narrator	it appears he had brought himself so low with journeys to Edinburgh and legal expenses on behalf of the tenants,
	narrator	that he could only scrape together three-and-five-pence-halfpenny, the most of it in coppers.
	alan	This'll no do.
	james stewart	Ye must find a safe bit somewhere near by, and get word sent to me. Ye see,
	james stewart	ye'll have to get this business prettily off, Alan. This is no time to be stayed for a guinea or two.
	james stewart	They're sure to get wind of ye, sure to seek ye, and by my way of it,
	james stewart	sure to lay on ye the wyte of this day's accident. If it falls on you,
	james stewart	it falls on me that am your near kinsman and harboured ye while ye were in the country.
	james stewart	And if it comes on me--
	narrator	he paused, and bit his fingers, with a white face.
	james stewart	It would be a painful thing for our friends if I was to hang, said he.
	alan	It would be an ill day for Appin, says Alan.
	james stewart	It's a day that sticks in my throat, said James. O man, man, man--man Alan! you and me have spoken like two fools!
	james stewart	he cried, striking his hand upon the wall so that the house rang again.
	alan	Well, and that's true, too, said Alan; and my friend from the Lowlands here
	narrator	(nodding at me)
	alan	gave me a good word upon that head, if I would only have listened to him.
	james stewart	But see here,
	narrator	said James, returning to his former manner,
	james stewart	if they lay me by the heels, Alan, it's then that you'll be needing the money.
	james stewart	For with all that I have said and that you have said, it will look very black against the two of us; do ye mark that?
	james stewart	Well, follow me out, and ye'll, I'll see that I'll have to get a paper out against ye mysel'; have to offer a reward for ye; ay,
	james stewart	will I! It's a sore thing to do between such near friends; but if I get the dirdum of this dreadful accident,
	james stewart	I'll have to fend for myself, man. Do ye see that?
	narrator	He spoke with a pleading earnestness, taking Alan by the breast of the coat.
	alan	Ay I see that.
	james stewart	And ye'll have to be clear of the country, Alan--ay, and clear of Scotland--you and your friend from the Lowlands,
	james stewart	too. For I'll have to paper your friend from the Lowlands. Ye see that, Alan--say that ye see that!
	narrator	I thought Alan flushed a bit.
	alan	This is unco hard on me that brought him here, James, It's like making me a traitor!
	james stewart	Now, Alan, man! Look things in the face! He'll be papered anyway; Mungo Campbell'll be sure to paper him; what matters if I paper him too?
	james stewart	And then, Alan, I am a man that has a family. And, Alan, it'll be a jury of Campbells,
	alan	There's one thing, that naebody kens his name.
	james stewart	Nor yet they shallnae, Alan! There's my hand on that, for all the world as if he had really known my name and was foregoing some advantage.
	james stewart	But just the habit he was in, and what he looked like, and his age, and the like?
	james stewart	I couldnae well do less.
	alan	I wonder at your father's son, Would ye sell the lad with a gift? Would ye change his clothes and then betray him?
	james stewart	No, no, Alan. No, no: the habit he took off--the habit Mungo saw him in.
	narrator	But I thought he seemed crestfallen; indeed, he was clutching at every straw, and all the time,
	narrator	I dare say, saw the faces of his hereditary foes on the bench, and in the jury-box,
	narrator	and the gallows in the background.
	alan	Well, sir, what say ye to that? Ye are here under the safeguard of my honour; and it's my part to see nothing done but what shall please you.
	narrator	I have but one word to say, for to all this dispute I am a perfect stranger.
	narrator	But the plain common-sense is to set the blame where it belongs, and that is on the man who fired the shot.
	narrator	Paper him, as ye call it, set the hunt on him; and let honest, innocent folk show their faces in safety.
	narrator	But at this both Alan and James cried out in horror;
	alan	bidding me hold my tongue, for that was not to be thought of;
	james stewart	and asking me what the Camerons would think?
	narrator	(which confirmed me, it must have been a Cameron from Mamore that did the act) and if I did not see that the lad might be caught?
	alan	Ye havenae surely thought of that?
	james stewart	said they, with such innocent earnestness,
	narrator	that my hands dropped at my side and I despaired of argument. Very well, then, said I,
	narrator	"paper me, if you please, paper Alan, paper King George! We're all three innocent, and that seems to be what's wanted.
	narrator	But at least, sir, said I to James, recovering from my little fit of annoyance, I am Alan's friend,
	narrator	and if I can be helpful to friends of his, I will not stumble at the risk.
	narrator	I thought it best to put a fair face on my consent, for I saw Alan troubled; and,
	narrator	besides (thinks I to myself), as soon as my back is turned, they will paper me,
	narrator	as they call it, whether I consent or not. But in this I saw I was wrong; for I had no sooner said the words,
	narrator	than Mrs. Stewart leaped out of her chair, came running over to us, and wept first upon my neck and then on Alan's,
	narrator	blessing God for our goodness to her family. As for you, Alan, it was no more than your bounden duty,
	mrs. stewart	But for this lad that has come here and seen us at our worst, and seen the goodman fleeching like a suitor,
	mrs. stewart	him that by rights should give his commands like any king--as for you, my lad, my heart is wae not to have your name,
	mrs. stewart	but I have your face; and as long as my heart beats under my bosom, I will keep it,
	mrs. stewart	and think of it, and bless it.
	narrator	And with that she kissed me, and burst once more into such sobbing, that I stood abashed.
	alan	Hoot, hoot, The day comes unco soon in this month of July; and to-morrow there'll be a fine to-do in Appin,
	alan	a fine riding of dragoons, and crying of 'Cruachan!' and running of red-coats; and it behoves you and me to the sooner be gone.
	narrator	Thereupon we said farewell, and set out again, bending somewhat eastwards, in a fine mild dark night,
	narrator	and over much the same broken country as before.
