	narrator	CHAPTER XXIII. Well, all day him and the king was hard at it, rigging up a stage and a curtain and a row of candles for footlights; and that night the house was jam full of men in no time.
	narrator	When the place couldn't hold no more, the duke he quit tending door and went around the back way and come on to the stage and stood up before the curtain and made a little speech,
	narrator	and praised up this tragedy, and said it was the most thrillingest one that ever was; and so he went on a-bragging about the tragedy,
	narrator	and about Edmund Kean the Elder, which was to play the main principal part in it; and at last when he'd got everybody's expectations up high enough,
	narrator	he rolled up the curtain, and the next minute the king come a-prancing out on all fours,
	narrator	naked; and he was painted all over, ring-streaked-and-striped, all sorts of colors, as splendid as a rainbow.
	narrator	And—but never mind the rest of his outfit; it was just wild, but it was awful funny.
	narrator	The people most killed themselves laughing; and when the king got done capering and capered off behind the scenes,
	narrator	they roared and clapped and stormed and haw-hawed till he come back and done it over again,
	narrator	and after that they made him do it another time. Well, it would make a cow laugh to see the shines that old idiot cut.
	narrator	Then the duke he lets the curtain down, and bows to the people, and says the great tragedy will be performed only two nights more,
	narrator	on accounts of pressing London engagements, where the seats is all sold already for it in Drury Lane; and then he makes them another bow,
	narrator	and says if he has succeeded in pleasing them and instructing them, he will be deeply obleeged if they will mention it to their friends and get them to come and see it.
	narrator	Twenty people sings out: "What, is it over? Is that _all_?" The duke says yes. Then there was a fine time.
	narrator	Everybody sings out, "Sold!" and rose up mad, and was a-going for that stage and them tragedians.
	narrator	But a big, fine looking man jumps up on a bench and shouts:
	the judge	Hold on! Just a word, gentlemen.
	narrator	They stopped to listen.
	the judge	We are sold—mighty badly sold. But we don't want to be the laughing stock of this whole town,
	the judge	I reckon, and never hear the last of this thing as long as we live. _No_.
	the judge	What we want is to go out of here quiet, and talk this show up, and sell the _rest_ of the town!
	the judge	Then we'll all be in the same boat. Ain't that sensible?
	narrator	("You bet it is!—the jedge is right!" everybody sings out.)
	the judge	All right, then—not a word about any sell. Go along home, and advise everybody to come and see the tragedy.
	narrator	Next day you couldn't hear nothing around that town but how splendid that show was. House was jammed again that night,
	narrator	and we sold this crowd the same way. When me and the king and the duke got home to the raft we all had a supper; and by-and-by,
	narrator	about midnight, they made Jim and me back her out and float her down the middle of the river,
	narrator	and fetch her in and hide her about two mile below town. The third night the house was crammed again—and they warn't new-comers this time,
	narrator	but people that was at the show the other two nights. I stood by the duke at the door,
	narrator	and I see that every man that went in had his pockets bulging, or something muffled up under his coat—and I see it warn't no perfumery,
	narrator	neither, not by a long sight. I smelt sickly eggs by the barrel, and rotten cabbages,
	narrator	and such things; and if I know the signs of a dead cat being around, and I bet I do,
	narrator	there was sixty-four of them went in. I shoved in there for a minute, but it was too various for me; I couldn't stand it.
	narrator	Well, when the place couldn't hold no more people the duke he give a fellow a quarter and told him to tend door for him a minute,
	narrator	and then he started around for the stage door, I after him; but the minute we turned the corner and was in the dark he says:
	the duke	Walk fast now till you get away from the houses, and then shin for the raft like the dickens was after you!
	narrator	I done it, and he done the same. We struck the raft at the same time,
	narrator	and in less than two seconds we was gliding down stream, all dark and still, and edging towards the middle of the river,
	narrator	nobody saying a word. I reckoned the poor king was in for a gaudy time of it with the audience,
	narrator	but nothing of the sort; pretty soon he crawls out from under the wigwam, and says:
	the king	Well, how'd the old thing pan out this time, duke?
	narrator	He hadn't been up town at all. We never showed a light till we was about ten mile below the village.
	narrator	Then we lit up and had a supper, and the king and the duke fairly laughed their bones loose over the way they'd served them people.
	the duke	Greenhorns, flatheads! _I_ knew the first house would keep mum and let the rest of the town get roped in; and I knew they'd lay for us the third night,
	the duke	and consider it was _their_ turn now. Well, it _is_ their turn, and I'd give something to know how much they'd take for it.
	the duke	I _would_ just like to know how they're putting in their opportunity. They can turn it into a picnic if they want to—they brought plenty provisions.
	narrator	Them rapscallions took in four hundred and sixty-five dollars in that three nights. I never see money hauled in by the wagon-load like that before.
	narrator	By-and-by, when they was asleep and snoring, Jim says:
	jim	Don't it s'prise you de way dem kings carries on, Huck?
	huck	No," I says, "it don't.
	jim	Why don't it, Huck?
	huck	Well, it don't, because it's in the breed. I reckon they're all alike.
	jim	But, Huck, dese kings o' ourn is reglar rapscallions; dat's jist what dey is; dey's reglar rapscallions.
	huck	Well, that's what I'm a-saying; all kings is mostly rapscallions, as fur as I can make out.
	jim	Is dat so?
	huck	You read about them once—you’ll see. Look at Henry the Eight; this’n’s a Sunday-school Superintendent to him.
	huck	And look at Charles Second, and Louis Fourteen, and Louis Fifteen, and James Second, and Edward Second,
	huck	and Richard Third, and forty more; besides all them Saxon heptarchies that used to rip around so in old times and raise Cain.
	huck	My, you ought to seen old Henry the Eight when he was in bloom. He was a blossom.
	huck	He used to marry a new wife every day, and chop off her head next morning.
	huck	And he would do it just as indifferent as if he was ordering up eggs. Fetch up Nell Gwynn,'
	huck	he says. They fetch her up. Next morning, 'Chop off her head!' And they chop it off.
	huck	Fetch up Jane Shore,' he says; and up she comes. Next morning, 'Chop off her head'—and they chop it off.
	huck	Ring up Fair Rosamun.' Fair Rosamun answers the bell. Next morning, 'Chop off her head. And he made every one of them tell him a tale every night; and he kept that up till he had hogged a thousand and one tales that way,
	huck	and then he put them all in a book, and called it Domesday Book—which was a good name and stated the case.
	huck	You don’t know kings, Jim, but I know them; and this old rip of ourn is one of the cleanest I’ve struck in history.
	huck	Well, Henry he takes a notion he wants to get up some trouble with this country.
	huck	How does he go at it—give notice?—give the country a show? No. All of a sudden he heaves all the tea in Boston Harbor overboard,
	huck	and whacks out a declaration of independence, and dares them to come on. That was his style—he never give anybody a chance.
	huck	He had suspicions of his father, the Duke of Wellington. Well, what did he do? Ask him to show up?
	huck	No—drownded him in a butt of mamsey, like a cat. S’pose people left money laying around where he was—what did he do?
	huck	He collared it. S’pose he contracted to do a thing, and you paid him, and didn’t set down there and see that he done it—what did he do?
	huck	He always done the other thing. S’pose he opened his mouth—what then? If he didn’t shut it up powerful quick he’d lose a lie every time.
	huck	That’s the kind of a bug Henry was; and if we’d a had him along instead of our kings he’d a fooled that town a heap worse than ourn done.
	huck	I don’t say that ourn is lambs, because they ain’t, when you come right down to the cold facts; but they ain’t nothing to that old ram,
	huck	anyway. All I say is, kings is kings, and you got to make allowances. Take them all around,
	huck	they’re a mighty ornery lot. It’s the way they’re raised.
	jim	But dis one do smell so like de nation, Huck.
	huck	Well, they all do, Jim. We can’t help the way a king smells; history don’t tell no way.
	jim	Now de duke, he’s a tolerble likely man in some ways.
	huck	Yes, a duke’s different. But not very different. This one’s a middling hard lot for a duke.
	huck	When he’s drunk, there ain’t no near-sighted man could tell him from a king.
	jim	Well, anyways, I doan’ hanker for no mo’ un um, Huck. Dese is all I kin stan’.
	huck	It’s the way I feel, too, Jim. But we’ve got them on our hands, and we got to remember what they are,
	huck	and make allowances. Sometimes I wish we could hear of a country that’s out of kings.
	narrator	What was the use to tell Jim these warn’t real kings and dukes? It wouldn't a done no good; and,
	narrator	besides, it was just as I said: you couldn't tell them from the real kind. I went to sleep,
	narrator	and Jim didn't call me when it was my turn. He often done that. When I waked up just at daybreak,
	narrator	he was sitting there with his head down betwixt his knees, moaning and mourning to himself.
	narrator	I didn't take notice nor let on. I knowed what it was about. He was thinking about his wife and his children,
	narrator	away up yonder, and he was low and homesick; because he hadn't ever been away from home before in his life; and I do believe he cared just as much for his people as white folks does for their'n.
	narrator	It don't seem natural, but I reckon it's so. He was often moaning and mourning that way nights,
	narrator	when he judged I was asleep, and saying, 'Po' little 'Lizabeth! po' little Johnny! it's mighty hard; I spec'
	narrator	I ain't ever gwyne to see you no mo', no mo!' He was a mighty good nigger,
	narrator	Jim was. But this time I somehow got to talking to him about his wife and young ones; and by-and-by he says:
	jim	What makes me feel so bad dis time 'uz bekase I hear sumpn over yonder on de bank like a whack,
	jim	er a slam, while ago, en it mine me er de time I treat my little 'Lizabeth so ornery.
	jim	She warn't on'y 'bout fo' year ole, en she tuck de sk'yarlet fever, en had a powfull rough spell; but she got well,
	jim	en one day she was a-stannin' aroun', en I says to her, I says: Shet de do'.
	jim	She never done it; jis' stood dah, kiner smilin' up at me. It make me mad; en I says agin,
	jim	mighty loud, I says: Doan' you hear me?—shet de do'! She jis stood de same way,
	jim	kiner smilin' up. I was a-bilin'! I says: I lay I make you mine! En wid dat I fetch'
	jim	her a slap side de head dat sont her a-sprawlin'. Den I went into de yuther room,
	jim	en 'uz gone 'bout ten minutes; en when I come back dah was dat do' a-stannin'
	jim	open yit, en dat chile stannin' mos' right in it, a-lookin' down and mournin', en de tears runnin'
	jim	down. My, but I wuz mad! I was a-gwyne for de chile, but jis' den—it was a do'
	jim	dat open innerds—jis' den, 'long come de wind en slam it to, behine de chile, ker-blam!—en my lan',
	jim	de chile never move'! My breff mos' hop outer me; en I feel so—so—I doan' know how I feel.
	jim	I crope out, all a-tremblin', en crope aroun' en open de do' easy en slow, en poke my head in behine de chile,
	jim	sof' en still, en all uv a sudden I says pow! jis' as loud as I could yell.
	jim	She never budge! Oh, Huck, I bust out a-cryin' en grab her up in my arms,
	jim	en say, 'Oh, de po' little thing! De Lord God Amighty fogive po' ole Jim, kaze he never gwyne to fogive hisself as long's he live!
	jim	Oh, she was plumb deef en dumb, Huck, plumb deef en dumb—en I'd ben a-treat'n her so!
