	narrator	CHAPTER XIV. By-and-by, when we got up, we turned over the truck the gang had stole off of the wreck,
	narrator	and found boots, and blankets, and clothes, and all sorts of other things, and a lot of books,
	narrator	and a spyglass, and three boxes of seegars. We hadn't ever been this rich before in neither of our lives.
	narrator	The seegars was prime. We laid off all the afternoon in the woods talking, and me reading the books,
	narrator	and having a general good time. I told Jim all about what happened inside the wreck and at the ferry-boat,
	narrator	and I said these kinds of things was adventures; but he said he didn't want no more adventures.
	narrator	He said that when I went in the texas and he crawled back to get on the raft and found her gone,
	narrator	he nearly died; because he judged it was all up with him, anyway it could be fixed; for if he didn't get saved he would get drownded; and if he did get saved,
	narrator	whoever saved him would send him back home so as to get the reward, and then Miss Watson would sell him South,
	narrator	sure. Well, he was right; he was most always right; he had an uncommon level head,
	narrator	for a nigger. I read considerable to Jim about kings and dukes and earls and such,
	narrator	and how gaudy they dressed, and how much style they put on, and called each other your majesty,
	narrator	and your grace, and your lordship, and so on, 'stead of mister; and Jim's eyes bugged out,
	narrator	and he was interested.
	jim	I didn't know dey was so many un um. I hain't hearn 'bout none un um,
	jim	skasely, but ole King Sollermun, onless you counts dem kings dat's in a pack er k'yards.
	jim	How much do a king git?
	huck	Get? Why, they get a thousand dollars a month if they want it; they can have just as much as they want; everything belongs to them.
	jim	_Ain't_ dat gay? En what dey got to do, Huck?
	huck	_They_ don't do nothing! Why, how you talk! They just set around.
	jim	No; is dat so?
	huck	Of course it is. They just set around—except, maybe, when there's a war; then they go to the war.
	huck	But other times they just lazy around; or go hawking—just hawking and sp— Sh!—d' you hear a noise?
	narrator	We skipped out and looked; but it warn't nothing but the flutter of a steamboat's wheel away down,
	narrator	coming around the point; so we come back.
	huck	Yes, and other times, when things is dull, they fuss with the parlyment; and if everybody don't go just so he whacks their heads off.
	huck	But mostly they hang round the harem.
	jim	Roun' de which?
	huck	Harem.
	jim	What's de harem?
	huck	The place where he keeps his wives. Don't you know about the harem? Solomon had one; he had about a million wives.
	jim	Why, yes, dat's so; I—I'd done forgot it. A harem's a bo'd'n-house, I reck'n. Mos' likely dey has rackety times in de nussery.
	jim	En I reck'n de wives quarrels considable; en dat 'crease de racket. Yit dey say Sollermun de wises'
	jim	man dat ever live'. I doan' take no stock in dat. Bekase why: would a wise man want to live in de mids'
	jim	er sich a blim-blammin' all de time? No—'deed he wouldn't. A wise man 'ud take en buil'
	jim	a biler-factry; en den he could shet _down_ de biler-factry when he want to res'.
	huck	Well, but he _was_ the wisest man, anyway; because the widow she told me so, her own self.
	jim	I doan k'yer what de widder say, he _warn't_ no wise man nuther. He had some er de dad-fetchedes'
	jim	ways I ever see. Does you know 'bout dat chile dat he 'uz gwyne to chop in two?
	huck	Yes, the widow told me all about it.
	jim	_Well_, den! Warn' dat de beatenes' notion in de worl'? You jes' take en look at it a minute.
	jim	Dah's de stump, dah—dat's one er de women; heah's you—dat's de yuther one; I's Sollermun; en dish yer dollar bill's de chile.
	jim	Bofe un you claims it. What does I do? Does I shin aroun' mongs' de neighbors en fine out which un you de bill _do_ b'long to,
	jim	en han' it over to de right one, all safe en soun', de way dat anybody dat had any gumption would?
	jim	No; I take en whack de bill in _two_, en give half un it to you,
	jim	en de yuther half to de yuther woman. Dat's de way Sollermun was gwyne to do wid de chile.
	jim	Now I want to ast you: what's de use er dat half a bill?—can't buy noth'n wid it.
	jim	En what use is a half a chile? I wouldn't give a dern for a million un um.
	huck	But hang it, Jim, you've clean missed the point—blame it, you've missed it a thousand mile.
	jim	Who? Me? Go 'long. Doan' talk to _me_ 'bout yo' pints. I reck'n I knows sense when I sees it; en dey ain'
	jim	no sense in sich doin's as dat. De 'spute warn't 'bout a half a chile, de 'spute was 'bout a whole chile; en de man dat think he kin settle a 'spute 'bout a whole chile wid a half a chile doan'
	jim	know enough to come in out'n de rain. Doan' talk to me 'bout Sollermun, Huck, I knows him by de back.
	huck	But I tell you you don't get the point.
	jim	Blame de point! I reck'n I knows what I knows. En mine you, de _real_ pint is down furder—it's down deeper.
	jim	It lays in de way Sollermun was raised. You take a man dat's got on'y one or two chillen; is dat man gwyne to be waseful o'
	jim	chillen? No, he ain't; he can't 'ford it. _He_ know how to value 'em. But you take a man dat's got 'bout five million chillen runnin'
	jim	roun' de house, en it's diffunt. _He_ as soon chop a chile in two as a cat.
	jim	Dey's plenty mo'. A chile er two, mo' er less, warn't no consekens to Sollermun, dad fatch him!
	narrator	I never see such a nigger. If he got a notion in his head once, there warn't no getting it out again.
	narrator	He was the most down on Solomon of any nigger I ever see. So I went to talking about other kings,
	narrator	and let Solomon slide. I told about Louis Sixteenth that got his head cut off in France long time ago; and about his little boy the dolphin,
	narrator	that would a been a king, but they took and shut him up in jail, and some say he died there.
	jim	Po' little chap.
	narrator	But some says he got out and got away, and come to America.
	jim	Dat's good! But he'll be pooty lonesome—dey ain' no kings here, is dey, Huck?
	huck	No.
	jim	Den he cain't git no situation. What he gwyne to do?
	huck	Well, I don't know. Some of them gets on the police, and some of them learns people how to talk French.
	jim	Why, Huck, doan’ de French people talk de same way we does?
	huck	No, Jim; you couldn't understand a word they said—not a single word.
	jim	Well, now, I be ding-busted! How do dat come?
	huck	I don't know; but it's so. I got some of their jabber out of a book.
	huck	S'pose a man was to come to you and say Polly-voo-franzy—what would you think?
	jim	I wouldn' think nuff'n; I'd take en bust him over de head—dat is, if he warn't white.
	jim	I wouldn't 'low no nigger to call me dat.
	huck	Shucks, it ain't calling you anything. It's only saying, do you know how to talk French?
	jim	Well, den, why couldn't he say it?
	huck	Why, he is a-saying it. That's a Frenchman's way of saying it.
	jim	Well, it's a blame ridicklous way, en I doan' want to hear no mo' 'bout it.
	jim	Dey ain' no sense in it.
	huck	Looky here, Jim; does a cat talk like we do?
	jim	No, a cat don't.
	huck	Well, does a cow?
	jim	No, a cow don't, nuther.
	huck	Does a cat talk like a cow, or a cow talk like a cat?
	jim	No, dey don't.
	huck	It's natural and right for 'em to talk different from each other, ain't it?
	jim	Course.
	huck	And ain't it natural and right for a cat and a cow to talk different from us?
	jim	Why, mos' sholy it is.
	huck	Well, then, why ain't it natural and right for a Frenchman to talk different from us?
	huck	You answer me that.
	jim	Is a cat a man, Huck?
	huck	No.
	jim	Well, den, dey ain't no sense in a cat talkin' like a man. Is a cow a man?—er is a cow a cat?
	huck	No, she ain't either of them.
	jim	Well, den, she ain't got no business to talk like either one er the yuther of 'em.
	jim	Is a Frenchman a man?
	huck	Yes.
	jim	Well, den! Dad blame it, why doan' he talk like a man? You answer me dat!
