	narrator	Well, three or four months run along, and it was well into the winter now. I had been to school most all the time and could spell and read and write just a little,
	narrator	and could say the multiplication table up to six times seven is thirty-five, and I don't reckon I could ever get any further than that if I was to live forever.
	narrator	I don't take no stock in mathematics, anyway. At first I hated the school, but by-and-by I got so I could stand it.
	narrator	Whenever I got uncommon tired I played hookey, and the hiding I got next day done me good and cheered me up.
	narrator	So the longer I went to school the easier it got to be. I was getting sort of used to the widow's ways,
	narrator	too, and they warn't so raspy on me. Living in a house and sleeping in a bed pulled on me pretty tight mostly,
	narrator	but before the cold weather I used to slide out and sleep in the woods sometimes,
	narrator	and so that was a rest to me. I liked the old ways best, but I was getting so I liked the new ones,
	narrator	too, a little bit.
	widow douglas	You are coming along slow but sure, and doing very satisfactory. She said she warn't ashamed of me.
	narrator	One morning I happened to turn over the salt-cellar at breakfast. I reached for some of it as quick as I could to throw over my left shoulder and keep off the bad luck,
	narrator	but Miss Watson was in ahead of me, and crossed me off.
	miss watson	Take your hands away, Huckleberry; what a mess you are always making!
	widow douglas	The widow put in a good word for me, but that warn't going to keep off the bad luck,
	widow douglas	I knowed that well enough.
	narrator	I started out, after breakfast, feeling worried and shaky, and wondering where it was going to fall on me,
	narrator	and what it was going to be. There is ways to keep off some kinds of bad luck,
	narrator	but this wasn't one of them kind; so I never tried to do anything, but just poked along low-spirited and on the watch-out.
	narrator	I went down to the front garden and clumb over the stile where you go through the high board fence.
	narrator	There was an inch of new snow on the ground, and I seen somebody's tracks. They had come up from the quarry and stood around the stile a while,
	narrator	and then went on around the garden fence. It was funny they hadn't come in, after standing around so.
	narrator	I couldn't make it out. It was very curious, somehow. I was going to follow around,
	narrator	but I stooped down to look at the tracks first. I didn't notice anything at first,
	narrator	but next I did. There was a cross in the left boot-heel made with big nails,
	narrator	to keep off the devil. I was up in a second and shinning down the hill.
	narrator	I looked over my shoulder every now and then, but I didn't see nobody. I was at Judge Thatcher's as quick as I could get there.
	judge thatcher	Why, my boy, you are all out of breath. Did you come for your interest?
	huckleberry	No, sir,
	judge thatcher	Is there some for me?
	huckleberry	Oh, yes, a half-yearly is in, last night—over a hundred and fifty dollars.
	judge thatcher	Quite a fortune for you. You had better let me invest it along with your six thousand,
	judge thatcher	because if you take it you'll spend it.
	huckleberry	No, sir,
	judge thatcher	Don't you ask me no questions about it, please. You'll take it—won't you? Well, I'm puzzled.
	judge thatcher	Is something the matter?
	huckleberry	Please take it,
	judge thatcher	Oho-o! I think I see. You want to sell all your property to me—not give it.
	judge thatcher	That's the correct idea. There; you see it says 'for a consideration.' That means I have bought it of you and paid you for it.
	judge thatcher	Here's a dollar for you. Now you sign it.
	narrator	So I signed it, and left. Miss Watson's nigger, Jim, had a hair-ball as big as your fist,
	narrator	which had been took out of the fourth stomach of an ox, and he used to do magic with it.
	narrator	He said there was a spirit inside of it, and it knowed everything. So I went to him that night and told him pap was here again,
	narrator	for I found his tracks in the snow. What I wanted to know was, what he was going to do,
	narrator	and was he going to stay? Jim got out his hair-ball and said something over it,
	narrator	and then he held it up and dropped it on the floor. It fell pretty solid,
	narrator	and only rolled about an inch. Jim tried it again, and then another time, and it acted just the same.
	narrator	Jim got down on his knees, and put his ear against it and listened. But it warn't no use; he said it wouldn't talk.
	narrator	He said sometimes it wouldn't talk without money.
	huckleberry	I told him I had an old slick counterfeit quarter that warn't no good because the brass showed through the silver a little,
	huckleberry	and it wouldn't pass nohow, even if the brass didn't show, because it was so slick it felt greasy,
	huckleberry	and so that would tell on it every time. (I reckoned I wouldn't say nothing about the dollar I got from the judge.) I said it was pretty bad money,
	huckleberry	but maybe the hair-ball would take it, because maybe it wouldn't know the difference.
	narrator	Jim smelt it and bit it and rubbed it, and said he would manage so the hair-ball would think it was good.
	narrator	He said he would split open a raw Irish potato and stick the quarter in between and keep it there all night,
	narrator	and next morning you couldn't see no brass, and it wouldn't feel greasy no more, and so anybody in town would take it in a minute,
	narrator	let alone a hair-ball. Well, I knowed a potato would do that before, but I had forgot it.
	narrator	Jim put the quarter under the hair-ball, and got down and listened again. This time he said the hair-ball was all right.
	narrator	He said it would tell my whole fortune if I wanted it to.
	huckleberry	I says, go on.
	jim	Yo' ole father doan' know yit what he's a-gwyne to do. Sometimes he spec he'll go 'way,
	jim	en den agin he spec he'll stay. De bes' way is to res' easy en let de ole man take his own way.
	jim	Dey's two angels hoverin' roun' 'bout him. One uv 'em is white en shiny, en t'other one is black.
	jim	De white one gits him to go right a little while, den de black one sail in en bust it all up.
	jim	A body can't tell yit which one gwyne to fetch him at de las'. But you is all right.
	jim	You gwyne to have considable trouble in yo' life, en considable joy. Sometimes you gwyne to git hurt,
	jim	en sometimes you gwyne to git sick; but every time you's gwyne to git well agin.
	jim	Dey's two gals flyin' 'bout you in yo' life. One uv 'em's light en t'other one is dark.
	jim	One is rich en t'other is po'. You's gwyne to marry de po' one fust en de rich one by en by.
	jim	You wants to keep 'way fum de water as much as you kin, en don't run no resk,
	jim	'kase it's down in de bills dat you's gwyne to git hung.
	narrator	When I lit my candle and went up to my room that night there sat pap his own self!
