	narrator	CHAPTER XV. We judged that three nights more would fetch us to Cairo, at the bottom of Illinois,
	narrator	where the Ohio River comes in, and that was what we was after. We would sell the raft and get on a steamboat and go way up the Ohio amongst the free States,
	narrator	and then be out of trouble. Well, the second night a fog begun to come on,
	narrator	and we made for a tow-head to tie to, for it wouldn't do to try to run in a fog; but when I paddled ahead in the canoe,
	narrator	with the line to make fast, there warn't anything but little saplings to tie to. I passed the line around one of them right on the edge of the cut bank,
	narrator	but there was a stiff current, and the raft come booming down so lively she tore it out by the roots and away she went.
	narrator	I see the fog closing down, and it made me so sick and scared I couldn't budge for most a half a minute it seemed to me—and then there warn't no raft in sight; you couldn't see twenty yards.
	narrator	I jumped into the canoe and run back to the stern, and grabbed the paddle and set her back a stroke.
	narrator	But she didn't come. I was in such a hurry I hadn't untied her. I got up and tried to untie her,
	narrator	but I was so excited my hands shook so I couldn't hardly do anything with them.
	narrator	As soon as I got started I took out after the raft, hot and heavy, right down the tow-head.
	narrator	That was all right as far as it went, but the tow-head warn't sixty yards long,
	narrator	and the minute I flew by the foot of it I shot out into the solid white fog,
	narrator	and hadn't no more idea which way I was going than a dead man. Thinks I,
	narrator	it won't do to paddle; first I know I'll run into the bank or a tow-head or something; I got to set still and float,
	narrator	and yet it's mighty fidgety business to have to hold your hands still at such a time.
	narrator	I whooped and listened. Away down there somewheres I hears a small whoop, and up comes my spirits.
	narrator	I went tearing after it, listening sharp to hear it again. The next time it come,
	narrator	I see I warn't heading for it, but heading away to the right of it. And the next time I was heading away to the left of it—and not gaining on it much either,
	narrator	for I was flying around, this way and that and t'other, but it was going straight ahead all the time.
	narrator	I did wish the fool would think to beat a tin pan, and beat it all the time,
	narrator	but he never did, and it was the still places between the whoops that was making the trouble for me.
	narrator	Well, I fought along, and directly I hears the whoop behind me. I was tangled good now.
	narrator	That was somebody else's whoop, or else I was turned around. I throwed the paddle down.
	narrator	I heard the whoop again; it was behind me yet, but in a different place; it kept coming,
	narrator	and kept changing its place, and I kept answering, till by-and-by it was in front of me again,
	narrator	and I knowed the current had swung the canoe's head down-stream, and I was all right if that was Jim and not some other raftsman hollering.
	narrator	I couldn't tell nothing about voices in a fog, for nothing don't look natural nor sound natural in a fog.
	narrator	The whooping went on, and in about a minute I come a-booming down on a cut bank with smoky ghosts of big trees on it,
	narrator	and the current throwed me off to the left and shot by, amongst a lot of snags that fairly roared,
	narrator	the current was tearing by them so swift. In another second or two it was solid white and still again.
	narrator	I set perfectly still then, listening to my heart thump, and I reckon I didn't draw a breath while it thumped a hundred.
	narrator	I just give up then. I knowed what the matter was. That cut bank was an island,
	narrator	and Jim had gone down t'other side of it. It warn't no tow-head that you could float by in ten minutes.
	narrator	It had the big timber of a regular island; it might be five or six miles long and more than half a mile wide.
	narrator	I kept quiet, with my ears cocked, about fifteen minutes, I reckon. I was floating along,
	narrator	of course, four or five miles an hour; but you don't ever think of that. No,
	narrator	you feel like you are laying dead still on the water; and if a little glimpse of a snag slips by you don't think to yourself how fast you're going,
	narrator	but you catch your breath and think, my! how that snag's tearing along. If you think it ain't dismal and lonesome out in a fog that way by yourself in the night,
	narrator	you try it once—you'll see. Next, for about a half an hour, I whoops now and then; at last I hears the answer a long ways off,
	narrator	and tries to follow it, but I couldn't do it, and directly I judged I'd got into a nest of tow-heads,
	narrator	for I had little dim glimpses of them on both sides of me—sometimes just a narrow channel between,
	narrator	and some that I couldn't see I knowed was there because I'd hear the wash of the current against the old dead brush and trash that hung over the banks.
	narrator	Well, I warn't long loosing the whoops down amongst the tow-heads; and I only tried to chase them a little while,
	narrator	anyway, because it was worse than chasing a Jack-o'-lantern. You never knowed a sound dodge around so,
	narrator	and swap places so quick and so much. I had to claw away from the bank pretty lively four or five times,
	narrator	to keep from knocking the islands out of the river; and so I judged the raft must be butting into the bank every now and then,
	narrator	or else it would get further ahead and clear out of hearing—it was floating a little faster than what I was.
	narrator	Well, I seemed to be in the open river again by-and-by, but I couldn't hear no sign of a whoop nowheres.
	narrator	I reckoned Jim had fetched up on a snag, maybe, and it was all up with him.
	narrator	I was good and tired, so I laid down in the canoe and said I wouldn't bother no more.
	narrator	I didn't want to go to sleep, of course; but I was so sleepy I couldn't help it; so I thought I would take jest one little cat-nap.
	narrator	But I reckon it was more than a cat-nap, for when I waked up the stars were shining bright,
	narrator	the fog was all gone, and I was spinning down a big bend stern first. First I didn't know where I was; I thought I was dreaming; and when things began to come back to me they seemed to come up dim out of last week.
	narrator	It was a monstrous big river here, with the tallest and the thickest kind of timber on both banks; just a solid wall,
	narrator	as well as I could see by the stars. I looked away down-stream, and seen a black speck on the water.
	narrator	I took after it; but when I got to it it warn’t nothing but a couple of sawlogs made fast together.
	narrator	Then I see another speck, and chased that; then another, and this time I was right.
	narrator	It was the raft. When I got to it Jim was setting there with his head down between his knees,
	narrator	asleep, with his right arm hanging over the steering-oar. The other oar was smashed off, and the raft was littered up with leaves and branches and dirt.
	narrator	So she'd had a rough time. I made fast and laid down under Jim's nose on the raft,
	narrator	and began to gap, and stretch my fists out against Jim, and says:
	huck finn	Hello, Jim, have I been asleep? Why didn't you stir me up?
	jim	Goodness gracious, is dat you, Huck? En you ain' dead—you ain't drownded—you's back agin? It's too good for true,
	jim	honey, it's too good for true. Lemme look at you chile, lemme feel o' you. No,
	jim	you ain't dead! you's back agin, 'live en soun', jis de same ole Huck—de same ole Huck,
	jim	thanks to goodness!
	huck finn	What's the matter with you, Jim? You been a-drinking?
	jim	Drinkin'? Has I ben a-drinkin'? Has I had a chance to be a-drinkin'?
	huck finn	Well, then, what makes you talk so wild?
	jim	How does I talk wild?
	huck finn	How? Why, hain't you been talking about my coming back, and all that stuff, as if I'd been gone away?
	jim	Huck—Huck Finn, you look me in de eye; look me in de eye. Hain't you ben gone away?
	huck finn	Gone away? Why, what in the nation do you mean? I hain't been gone anywheres. Where would I go to?
	jim	Well, looky here, boss, dey's sumf'n wrong, dey is. Is I me, or who is I?
	jim	Is I heah, or whah is I? Now dat's what I wants to know.
	huck finn	Well, I think you're here, plain enough, but I think you're a tangle-headed old fool, Jim.
	jim	I is, is I? Well, you answer me dis: Didn't you tote out de line in de canoe fer to make fas'
	jim	to de tow-head?
	huck finn	No, I didn't. What tow-head? I hain't see no tow-head.
	jim	You hain't seen no tow-head? Looky here, didn't de line pull loose en de raf' go a-hummin'
	jim	down de river, en leave you en de canoe behine in de fog?
	huck finn	What fog?
	jim	Why, de fog!—de fog dat's been aroun' all night. En didn't you whoop, en didn't I whoop,
	jim	tell we got mix' up in de islands en one un us got los' en t'other one was jis'
	jim	as good as los', 'kase he didn't know whah he wuz? En didn't I bust up agin a lot er dem islands en have a turrible time en mos'
	jim	git drownded? Now ain't dat so, boss—ain't it so? You answer me dat.
	huck finn	Well, this is too many for me, Jim. I hain't seen no fog, nor no islands,
	huck finn	nor no troubles, nor nothing. I been setting here talking with you all night till you went to sleep about ten minutes ago,
	huck finn	and I reckon I done the same. You couldn't a got drunk in that time, so of course you've been dreaming.
	jim	Dad fetch it, how is I gwyne to dream all dat in ten minutes?
	huck finn	Well, hang it all, you did dream it, because there didn't any of it happen.
	jim	But, Huck, it's all jis' as plain to me as—
	huck finn	It don't make no difference how plain it is; there ain't nothing in it. I know,
	huck finn	because I've been here all the time.
	narrator	Jim didn't say nothing for about five minutes, but set there studying over it. Then he says:
	jim	Well, den, I reck'n I did dream it, Huck; but dog my cats ef it ain't de powerfullest dream I ever see.
	jim	En I hain't ever had no dream b'fo' dat's tired me like dis one.
	huck finn	Oh, well, that's all right, because a dream does tire a body like everything sometimes. But this one was a staving dream; tell me all about it,
	huck finn	Jim.
	narrator	So Jim went to work and told me the whole thing right through, just as it happened,
	narrator	only he painted it up considerably. Then he said he must start in and 'terpret' it,
	narrator	because it was sent for a warning. He said the first tow-head stood for a man that would try to do us some good,
	narrator	but the current was another man that would get us away from him. The whoops was warnings that would come to us every now and then,
	narrator	and if we didn't try hard to make out to understand them they'd just take us into bad luck,
	narrator	'stead of keeping us out of it. The lot of tow-heads was troubles we was going to get into with quarrelsome people and all kinds of mean folks,
	narrator	but if we minded our business and didn't talk back and aggravate them, we would pull through and get out of the fog and into the big clear river,
	narrator	which was the free States, and wouldn't have no more trouble. It had clouded up pretty dark just after I got on to the raft,
	narrator	but it was clearing up again now.
	huck finn	Oh, well, that's all interpreted well enough as far as it goes, Jim, but what does these things stand for?
	narrator	It was the leaves and rubbish on the raft and the smashed oar. You could see them first-rate now.
	narrator	Jim looked at the trash, and then looked at me, and back at the trash again.
	narrator	He had got the dream fixed so strong in his head that he couldn't seem to shake it loose and get the facts back into its place again right away.
	narrator	But when he did get the thing straightened around he looked at me steady without ever smiling,
	narrator	and says:
	jim	What do dey stan' for? I'se gwyne to tell you. When I got all wore out wid work,
	jim	en wid de callin' for you, en went to sleep, my heart wuz mos' broke bekase you wuz los',
	jim	en I didn't k'yer no' mo' what become er me en de raf'. En when I wake up en fine you back agin,
	jim	all safe en soun', de tears come, en I could a got down on my knees en kiss yo'
	jim	foot, I's so thankful. En all you wuz thinkin' 'bout wuz how you could make a fool uv ole Jim wid a lie.
	jim	Dat truck dah is trash; en trash is what people is dat puts dirt on de head er dey fren's en makes 'em ashamed.
	narrator	Then he got up slow and walked to the wigwam, and went in there without saying anything but that.
	narrator	But that was enough. It made me feel so mean I could almost kissed his foot to get him to take it back.
	narrator	It was fifteen minutes before I could work myself up to go and humble my self to a nigger; but I done it,
	narrator	and I warn't ever sorry for it afterwards, neither. I didn't do him no more mean tricks,
	narrator	and I wouldn't done that one if I'd a knowed it would make him feel that way.
