	narrator	Well, pretty soon the old man was up and around again, and then he went for Judge Thatcher in the courts to make him give up that money,
	narrator	and he went for me, too, for not stopping school. He catched me a couple of times and thrashed me,
	narrator	but I went to school just the same, and dodged him or outrun him most of the time.
	narrator	I didn’t want to go to school much before, but I reckoned I’d go now to spite pap.
	narrator	That law trial was a slow business—appeared like they warn’t ever going to get started on it; so every now and then I’d borrow two or three dollars off of the judge for him,
	narrator	to keep from getting a cowhiding. Every time he got money he got drunk; and every time he got drunk he raised Cain around town; and every time he raised Cain he got jailed.
	narrator	He was just suited—this kind of thing was right in his line. He got to hanging around the widow’s too much and so she told him at last that if he didn’t quit using around there she would make trouble for him.
	narrator	Well, wasn't he mad?
	pap finn	He said he would show who was Huck Finn's boss.
	narrator	So he watched out for me one day in the spring, and catched me, and took me up the river about three mile in a skiff,
	narrator	and crossed over to the Illinois shore where it was woody and there warn’t no houses but an old log hut in a place where the timber was so thick you couldn’t find it if you didn’t know where it was.
	narrator	He kept me with him all the time, and I never got a chance to run off.
	narrator	We lived in that old cabin, and he always locked the door and put the key under his head nights.
	narrator	He had a gun which he had stole, I reckon, and we fished and hunted, and that was what we lived on.
	narrator	Every little while he locked me in and went down to the store, three miles, to the ferry,
	narrator	and traded fish and game for whisky, and fetched it home and got drunk and had a good time,
	narrator	and licked me. The widow she found out where I was by-and-by, and she sent a man over to try to get hold of me; but pap drove him off with the gun,
	narrator	and it warn’t long after that till I was used to being where I was, and liked it—all but the cowhide part.
	narrator	It was kind of lazy and jolly, laying off comfortable all day, smoking and fishing, and no books nor study.
	narrator	Two months or more run along, and my clothes got to be all rags and dirt,
	narrator	and I didn’t see how I’d ever got to like it so well at the widow’s,
	narrator	where you had to wash, and eat on a plate, and comb up, and go to bed and get up regular,
	narrator	and be forever bothering over a book, and have old Miss Watson pecking at you all the time.
	narrator	I didn’t want to go back no more. I had stopped cussing, because the widow didn’t like it; but now I took to it again because pap hadn’t no objections.
	narrator	It was pretty good times up in the woods there, take it all around. But by-and-by pap got too handy with his hick’ry,
	narrator	and I couldn’t stand it. I was all over welts. He got to going away so much,
	narrator	too, and locking me in. Once he locked me in and was gone three days. It was dreadful lonesome.
	narrator	I judged he had got drownded, and I wasn’t ever going to get out any more.
	narrator	I was scared. I made up my mind I would fix up some way to leave there.
	narrator	I had tried to get out of that cabin many a time, but I couldn’t find no way.
	narrator	There warn’t a window to it big enough for a dog to get through. I couldn’t get up the chimbly; it was too narrow.
	narrator	The door was thick, solid oak slabs. Pap was pretty careful not to leave a knife or anything in the cabin when he was away; I reckon I had hunted the place over as much as a hundred times; well,
	narrator	I was most all the time at it, because it was about the only way to put in the time.
	narrator	But this time I found something at last; I found an old rusty wood-saw without any handle; it was laid in between a rafter and the clapboards of the roof.
	narrator	I greased it up and went to work. There was an old horse-blanket nailed against the logs at the far end of the cabin behind the table,
	narrator	to keep the wind from blowing through the chinks and putting the candle out. I got under the table and raised the blanket,
	narrator	and went to work to saw a section of the big bottom log out—big enough to let me through.
	narrator	Well, it was a good long job, but I was getting towards the end of it when I heard pap’s gun in the woods.
	narrator	I got rid of the signs of my work, and dropped the blanket and hid my saw,
	narrator	and pretty soon pap come in.
	pap finn	Pap warn’t in a good humor—so he was his natural self. He said he was down town,
	pap finn	and everything was going wrong. His lawyer said he reckoned he would win his lawsuit and get the money if they ever got started on the trial; but then there was ways to put it off a long time,
	pap finn	and Judge Thatcher knowed how to do it. And he said people allowed there’d be another trial to get me away from him and give me to the widow for my guardian,
	pap finn	and they guessed it would win this time.
	narrator	This shook me up considerably, because I didn’t want to go back to the widow’s any more and be so cramped up and sivilized,
	narrator	as they called it.
	pap finn	Then the old man got to cussing, and cussed everything and everybody he could think of,
	pap finn	and then cussed them all over again to make sure he hadn’t skipped any, and after that he polished off with a kind of a general cuss all round,
	pap finn	including a considerable parcel of people which he didn’t know the names of, and so called them what’s-his-name when he got to them,
	pap finn	and went right along with his cussing. He said he would like to see the widow get me.
	pap finn	He said he would watch out, and if they tried to come any such game on him he knowed of a place six or seven mile off to stow me in,
	pap finn	where they might hunt till they dropped and they couldn’t find me.
	narrator	That made me pretty uneasy again, but only for a minute; I reckoned I wouldn’t stay on hand till he got that chance.
	narrator	The old man made me go to the skiff and fetch the things he had got.
	narrator	There was a fifty-pound sack of corn meal, and a side of bacon, ammunition, and a four-gallon jug of whisky,
	narrator	and an old book and two newspapers for wadding, besides some tow. I toted up a load,
	narrator	and went back and set down on the bow of the skiff to rest. I thought it all over,
	narrator	and I reckoned I would walk off with the gun and some lines, and take to the woods when I run away.
	narrator	I guessed I wouldn't stay in one place, but just tramp right across the country, mostly night times,
	narrator	and hunt and fish to keep alive, and so get so far away that the old man nor the widow couldn't ever find me any more.
	narrator	I judged I would saw out and leave that night if pap got drunk enough, and I reckoned he would.
	narrator	I got so full of it I didn't notice how long I was staying till the old man hollered and asked me whether I was asleep or drownded.
	narrator	I got the things all up to the cabin, and then it was about dark. While I was cooking supper the old man took a swig or two and got sort of warmed up,
	narrator	and went to ripping again. He had been drunk over in town, and laid in the gutter all night,
	narrator	and he was a sight to look at. A body would a thought he was Adam—he was just all mud.
	narrator	Whenever his liquor begun to work he most always went for the govment, this time he says:
	pap finn	Call this a govment! why, just look at it and see what it's like. Here's the law a-standing ready to take a man's son away from him—a man's own son,
	pap finn	which he has had all the trouble and all the anxiety and all the expense of raising.
	pap finn	Yes, just as that man has got that son raised at last, and ready to go to work and begin to do suthin'
	pap finn	for _him_ and give him a rest, the law up and goes for him. And they call _that_ govment!
	pap finn	That ain't all, nuther. The law backs that old Judge Thatcher up and helps him to keep me out o'
	pap finn	my property. Here's what the law does: The law takes a man worth six thousand dollars and up'ards,
	pap finn	and jams him into an old trap of a cabin like this, and lets him go round in clothes that ain't fitten for a hog.
	pap finn	They call that govment! A man can't get his rights in a govment like this. Sometimes I've a mighty notion to just leave the country for good and all.
	pap finn	Yes, and I _told_ 'em so; I told old Thatcher so to his face. Lots of 'em heard me,
	pap finn	and can tell what I said. Says I, for two cents I'd leave the blamed country and never come a-near it agin.
	pap finn	Them's the very words. I says look at my hat—if you call it a hat—but the lid raises up and the rest of it goes down till it's below my chin,
	pap finn	and then it ain't rightly a hat at all, but more like my head was shoved up through a jint o stove-pipe.
	pap finn	Look at it, says I—such a hat for me to wear—one of the wealthiest men in this town if I could git my rights.
	pap finn	Oh, yes, this is a wonderful govment, wonderful. Why, looky here. There was a free nigger there from Ohio—a mulatter,
	pap finn	most as white as a white man. He had the whitest shirt on you ever see,
	pap finn	too, and the shiniest hat; and there ain't a man in that town that's got as fine clothes as what he had; and he had a gold watch and chain,
	pap finn	and a silver-headed cane—the awfulest old gray-headed nabob in the State. And what do you think?
	pap finn	They said he was a p'fessor in a college, and could talk all kinds of languages,
	pap finn	and knowed everything. And that ain't the wust. They said he could _vote_ when he was at home.
	pap finn	Well, that let me out. Thinks I, what is the country a-coming to? It was 'lection day,
	pap finn	and I was just about to go and vote myself if I warn't too drunk to get there; but when they told me there was a State in this country where they'd let that nigger vote,
	pap finn	I drawed out. I says I'll never vote agin. Them's the very words I said; they all heard me; and the country may rot for all me—I'll never vote agin as long as I live.
	pap finn	And to see the cool way of that nigger—why, he wouldn't a give me the road if I hadn't shoved him out o'
	pap finn	the way. I says to the people, why ain't this nigger put up at auction and sold?—that's what I want to know.
	pap finn	And what do you reckon they said? Why, they said he couldn't be sold till he'd been in the State six months,
	pap finn	and he hadn't been there that long yet. There, now—that's a specimen. They call that a govment that can't sell a free nigger till he's been in the State six months.
	pap finn	Here's a govment that calls itself a govment, and lets on to be a govment, and thinks it is a govment,
	pap finn	and yet's got to set stock-still for six whole months before it can take a hold of a prowling,
	pap finn	thieving, infernal, white-shirted free nigger, and—
	narrator	Pap was agoing on so he never noticed where his old limber legs was taking him to,
	narrator	so he went head over heels over the tub of salt pork and barked both shins,
	narrator	and the rest of his speech was all the hottest kind of language—mostly hove at the nigger and the govment,
	narrator	though he give the tub some, too, all along, here and there. He hopped around the cabin considerable,
	narrator	first on one leg and then on the other, holding first one shin and then the other one,
	narrator	and at last he let out with his left foot all of a sudden and fetched the tub a rattling kick.
	narrator	But it warn't good judgment, because that was the boot that had a couple of his toes leaking out of the front end of it; so now he raised a howl that fairly made a body's hair raise,
	narrator	and down he went in the dirt, and rolled there, and held his toes; and the cussing he done then laid over anything he had ever done previous.
	narrator	He said so his own self afterwards. He had heard old Sowberry Hagan in his best days,
	narrator	and he said it laid over him, too; but I reckon that was sort of piling it on,
	narrator	maybe. After supper pap took the jug, and said he had enough whisky there for two drunks and one delirium tremens.
	narrator	That was always his word. I judged he would be blind drunk in about an hour,
	narrator	and then I would steal the key, or saw myself out, one or t'other. He drank and drank,
	narrator	and tumbled down on his blankets by-and-by; but luck didn’t run my way. He didn't go sound asleep,
	narrator	but was uneasy. He groaned and moaned and thrashed around this way and that for a long time.
	narrator	At last I got so sleepy I couldn't keep my eyes open all I could do,
	narrator	and so before I knowed what I was about I was sound asleep, and the candle burning.
	narrator	I don't know how long I was asleep, but all of a sudden there was an awful scream and I was up.
	narrator	There was pap looking wild, and skipping around every which way and yelling about snakes.
	pap finn	They was crawling up my legs; and then he would give a jump and scream, and say one had bit me on the cheek—but I couldn't see no snakes.
	pap finn	Take him off! take him off! he's biting me on the neck!
	narrator	I never see a man look so wild in the eyes. Pretty soon he was all fagged out,
	narrator	and fell down panting; then he rolled over and over wonderful fast, kicking things every which way,
	narrator	and striking and grabbing at the air with his hands, and screaming and saying there was devils a-hold of him.
	narrator	He wore out by-and-by, and laid still a while, moaning. Then he laid stiller, and didn't make a sound.
	narrator	I could hear the owls and the wolves away off in the woods, and it seemed terrible still.
	narrator	He was laying over by the corner.
	pap finn	Tramp—tramp—tramp; that's the dead; tramp—tramp—tramp; they're coming after me; but I won't go. Oh, they're here!
	pap finn	don't touch me—don't! hands off—they're cold; let go. Oh, let a poor devil alone!
	narrator	Then he went down on all fours and crawled off, begging them to let him alone,
	narrator	and he rolled himself up in his blanket and wallowed in under the old pine table,
	narrator	still a-begging; and then he went to crying. I could hear him through the blanket. By-and-by he rolled out and jumped up on his feet looking wild,
	narrator	and he see me and went for me.
	pap finn	He chased me round and round the place with a clasp-knife, calling me the Angel of Death,
	pap finn	and saying he would kill me, and then I couldn't come for him no more.
	huck finn	I begged, and told him I was only Huck; but he laughed _such_ a screechy laugh,
	huck finn	and roared and cussed, and kept on chasing me up.
	narrator	Once when I turned short and dodged under his arm he made a grab and got me by the jacket between my shoulders,
	narrator	and I thought I was gone; but I slid out of the jacket quick as lightning,
	narrator	and saved myself. Pretty soon he was all tired out, and dropped down with his back against the door,
	narrator	and said he would rest a minute and then kill me.
	pap finn	He put his knife under him, and said he would sleep and get strong, and then he would see who was who.
	narrator	So he dozed off pretty soon. By-and-by I got the old split-bottom chair and clumb up as easy as I could,
	narrator	not to make any noise, and got down the gun. I slipped the ramrod down it to make sure it was loaded,
	narrator	then I laid it across the turnip barrel, pointing towards pap, and set down behind it to wait for him to stir.
	narrator	And how slow and still the time did drag along.
