	narrator	CHAPTER XIX. Two or three days and nights went by; I reckon I might say they swum by,
	narrator	they slid along so quiet and smooth and lovely. Here is the way we put in the time.
	narrator	It was a monstrous big river down there—sometimes a mile and a half wide; we run nights,
	narrator	and laid up and hid daytimes; soon as night was most gone we stopped navigating and tied up—nearly always in the dead water under a tow-head; and then cut young cottonwoods and willows,
	narrator	and hid the raft with them. Then we set out the lines. Next we slid into the river and had a swim,
	narrator	so as to freshen up and cool off; then we set down on the sandy bottom where the water was about knee deep,
	narrator	and watched the daylight come. Not a sound anywheres—perfectly still—just like the whole world was asleep,
	narrator	only sometimes the bullfrogs a-cluttering, maybe. The first thing to see, looking away over the water,
	narrator	was a kind of dull line—that was the woods on t'other side; you couldn't make nothing else out; then a pale place in the sky; then more paleness spreading around; then the river softened up away off,
	narrator	and warn't black any more, but gray; you could see little dark spots drifting along ever so far away—trading scows,
	narrator	and such things; and long black streaks—rafts; sometimes you could hear a sweep screaking; or jumbled up voices,
	narrator	it was so still, and sounds come so far; and by-and-by you could see a streak on the water which you know by the look of the streak that there's a snag there in a swift current which breaks on it and makes that streak look that way; and you
	narrator	see the mist curl up off of the water, and the east reddens up, and the river,
	narrator	and you make out a log-cabin in the edge of the woods, away on the bank on t'other side of the river,
	narrator	being a woodyard, likely, and piled by them cheats so you can throw a dog through it anywheres; then the nice breeze springs up,
	narrator	and comes fanning you from over there, so cool and fresh and sweet to smell on account of the woods and the flowers; but sometimes not that way,
	narrator	because they've left dead fish laying around, gars and such, and they do get pretty rank; and next you've got the full day,
	narrator	and everything smiling in the sun, and the song-birds just going it! A little smoke couldn't be noticed now,
	narrator	so we would take some fish off of the lines and cook up a hot breakfast.
	narrator	And afterwards we would watch the lonesomeness of the river, and kind of lazy along, and by-and-by lazy off to sleep.
	narrator	Wake up by-and-by, and look to see what done it, and maybe see a steamboat coughing along up-stream,
	narrator	so far off towards the other side you couldn't tell nothing about her only whether she was a stern-wheel or side-wheel; then for about an hour there wouldn't be nothing to hear nor nothing to see—just solid lonesomeness.
	narrator	Next you'd see a raft sliding by, away off yonder, and maybe a galoot on it chopping,
	narrator	because they're most always doing it on a raft; you'd see the axe flash and come down—you don't hear nothing; you see that axe go up again,
	narrator	and by the time it's above the man's head then you hear the _k'chunk!_—it had took all that time to come over the water.
	narrator	So we would put in the day, lazying around, listening to the stillness. Once there was a thick fog,
	narrator	and the rafts and things that went by was beating tin pans so the steamboats wouldn't run over them.
	narrator	A scow or a raft went by so close we could hear them talking and cussing and laughing—heard them plain; but we couldn't see no sign of them; it made you feel crawly; it was like spirits carrying on that way in the air.
	jim	I believed it was spirits;
	huck	No; spirits wouldn't say, 'Dern the dern fog.
	narrator	Soon as it was night out we shoved; when we got her out to about the middle we let her alone,
	narrator	and let her float wherever the current wanted her to; then we lit the pipes, and dangled our legs in the water,
	narrator	and talked about all kinds of things—we was always naked, day and night, whenever the mosquitoes would let us—the new clothes Buck's folks made for me was too good to be comfortable,
	narrator	and besides I didn't go much on clothes, nohow. Sometimes we'd have that whole river all to ourselves for the longest time.
	narrator	Yonder was the banks and the islands, across the water; and maybe a spark—which was a candle in a cabin window; and sometimes on the water you could see a spark or two—on a raft or a scow,
	narrator	you know; and maybe you could hear a fiddle or a song coming over from one of them crafts.
	narrator	It's lovely to live on a raft. We had the sky up there, all speckled with stars,
	narrator	and we used to lay on our backs and look up at them, and discuss about whether they was made or only just happened.
	jim	He allowed they was made, but I allowed they happened;
	huck	I judged it would have took too long to _make_ so many.
	jim	The moon could a laid them;
	huck	Well, that looked kind of reasonable, so I didn't say nothing against it, because I've seen a frog lay most as many,
	huck	so of course it could be done.
	narrator	We used to watch the stars that fell, too, and see them streak down. Jim allowed they'd got spoiled and was hove out of the nest.
	narrator	Once or twice of a night we would see a steamboat slipping along in the dark,
	narrator	and now and then she would belch a whole world of sparks up out of her chimbleys,
	narrator	and they would rain down in the river and look awful pretty; then she would turn a corner and her lights would wink out and her powwow shut off and leave the river still again; and by-and-by her waves would get to us,
	narrator	a long time after she was gone, and joggle the raft a bit, and after that you wouldn't hear nothing for you couldn't tell how long,
	narrator	except maybe frogs or something. After midnight the people on shore went to bed, and then for two or three hours the shores was black—no more sparks in the cabin windows.
	narrator	These sparks was our clock—the first one that showed again meant morning was coming, so we hunted a place to hide and tie up right away.
	narrator	One morning about daybreak I found a canoe and crossed over a chute to the main shore—it was only two hundred yards—and paddled about a mile up a crick amongst the cypress woods,
	narrator	to see if I couldn’t get some berries. Just as I was passing a place where a kind of a cowpath crossed the crick,
	narrator	here comes a couple of men tearing up the path as tight as they could foot it.
	narrator	I thought I was a goner, for whenever anybody was after anybody I judged it was _me_—or maybe Jim.
	narrator	I was about to dig out from there in a hurry, but they was pretty close to me then,
	narrator	and sung out and begged me to save their lives—said they hadn’t been doing nothing, and was being chased for it—said there was men and dogs a-coming.
	narrator	They wanted to jump right in, but I says:
	huck	Don't you do it. I don't hear the dogs and horses yet; you've got time to crowd through the brush and get up the crick a little ways; then you take to the water and wade down to me and get in—that'll throw the dogs off the scent.
	narrator	They done it, and soon as they was aboard I lit out for our tow-head, and in about five or ten minutes we heard the dogs and the men away off,
	narrator	shouting. We heard them come along towards the crick, but couldn't see them; they seemed to stop and fool around a while; then,
	narrator	as we got further and further away all the time, we couldn't hardly hear them at all; by the time we had left a mile of woods behind us and struck the river,
	narrator	everything was quiet, and we paddled over to the tow-head and hid in the cottonwoods and was safe.
	narrator	One of these fellows was about seventy or upwards, and had a bald head and very gray whiskers.
	narrator	He had an old battered-up slouch hat on, and a greasy blue woollen shirt, and ragged old blue jeans britches stuffed into his boot-tops,
	narrator	and home-knit galluses—no, he only had one. He had an old long-tailed blue jeans coat with slick brass buttons flung over his arm,
	narrator	and both of them had big, fat, ratty-looking carpet-bags. The other fellow was about thirty, and dressed about as ornery.
	narrator	After breakfast we all laid off and talked, and the first thing that come out was that these chaps didn't know one another.
	baldhead	What got you into trouble?
	the duke of bridgewater	Well, I'd been selling an article to take the tartar off the teeth—and it does take it off,
	the duke of bridgewater	too, and generly the enamel along with it—but I stayed about one night longer than I ought to,
	the duke of bridgewater	and was just in the act of sliding out when I ran across you on the trail this side of town,
	the duke of bridgewater	and you told me they were coming, and begged me to help you to get off.
	the duke of bridgewater	So I told you I was expecting trouble myself, and would scatter out with you. That's the whole yarn—what's yours?
	narrator	Well, I'd ben a-runnin' a little temperance revival thar, 'bout a week, and was the pet of the women folks,
	narrator	big and little, for I was makin' it mighty warm for the rummies, I _tell_ you,
	narrator	and takin' as much as five or six dollars a night—ten cents a head, children and niggers free—and business a-growin'
	narrator	all the time, when somehow or another a little report got around last night that I had a way of puttin'
	narrator	in my time with a private jug on the sly. A nigger rousted me out this mornin',
	narrator	and told me the people was getherin' on the quiet with their dogs and horses, and they'd be along pretty soon and give me 'bout half an hour's start,
	narrator	and then run me down if they could; and if they got me they'd tar and feather me and ride me on a rail,
	narrator	sure. I didn't wait for no breakfast—I warn't hungry.
	young man	Old man, I reckon we might double-team it together; what do you think?
	baldhead	I ain't undisposed. What's your line—mainly?
	young man	Jour printer by trade; do a little in patent medicines; theater-actor—tragedy, you know; take a turn to mesmerism and phrenology when there's a chance; teach singing-geography school for a change; sling a lecture sometimes—oh,
	young man	I do lots of things—most anything that comes handy, so it ain't work. What's your lay?
	baldhead	I've done considerble in the doctoring way in my time. Layin' on o' hands is my best holt—for cancer and paralysis,
	baldhead	and sich things; and I k'n tell a fortune pretty good when I've got somebody along to find out the facts for me.
	baldhead	Preachin's my line, too, and workin' camp-meetin's, and missionaryin' around.
	young man	Alas!
	baldhead	What 're you alassin' about?
	young man	To think I should have lived to be leading such a life, and be degraded down into such company.
	young man	And he begun to wipe the corner of his eye with a rag.
	baldhead	Dern your skin, ain't the company good enough for you?
	young man	Yes, it _is_ good enough for me; it's as good as I deserve; for who fetched me so low when I was so high?
	young man	_I_ did myself. I don't blame _you_, gentlemen—far from it; I don't blame anybody. I deserve it all.
	young man	Let the cold world do its worst; one thing I know—there's a grave somewhere for me.
	young man	The world may go on just as it's always done, and take everything from me—loved ones,
	young man	property, everything; but it can't take that. Some day I'll lie down in it and forget it all,
	young man	and my poor broken heart will be at rest. He went on a-wiping.
	baldhead	Drot your pore broken heart. What are you heaving your pore broken heart at _us_ f'
	baldhead	r? _We_ hain't done nothing.
	young man	No, I know you haven't. I ain't blaming you, gentlemen. I brought myself down—yes, I did it myself.
	young man	It's right I should suffer—perfectly right—I don't make any moan.
	baldhead	Brought you down from whar? Whar was you brought down from?
	narrator	Ah, you would not believe me; the world never believes—let it pass—'tis no matter. The secret of my birth— The secret of your birth!
	narrator	Do you mean to say—
	bilgewater	Gentlemen, I will reveal it to you, for I feel I may have confidence in you.
	bilgewater	By rights I am a duke!
	narrator	Jim's eyes bugged out when he heard that; and I reckon mine did, too.
	baldhead	No! you can't mean it?
	bilgewater	Yes. My great-grandfather, eldest son of the Duke of Bridgewater, fled to this country about the end of the last century,
	bilgewater	to breathe the pure air of freedom; married here, and died, leaving a son, his own father dying about the same time.
	bilgewater	The second son of the late duke seized the titles and estates—the infant real duke was ignored.
	bilgewater	I am the lineal descendant of that infant—I am the rightful Duke of Bridgewater; and here am I,
	bilgewater	forlorn, torn from my high estate, hunted of men, despised by the cold world, ragged, worn,
	bilgewater	heart-broken, and degraded to the companionship of felons on a raft!
	narrator	Jim pitied him ever so much, and so did I. We tried to comfort him, but he said it warn't much use,
	narrator	he couldn't be much comforted;
	bilgewater	said if we was a mind to acknowledge him, that would do him more good than most anything else;
	narrator	so we said we would, if he would tell us how.
	bilgewater	He said we ought to bow when we spoke to him, and say "Your Grace," or "My Lord,"
	bilgewater	or "Your Lordship"—and he wouldn't mind it if we called him plain "Bridgewater," which, he said,
	bilgewater	was a title anyway, and not a name; and one of us ought to wait on him at dinner,
	bilgewater	and do any little thing for him he wanted done.
	narrator	Well, that was all easy, so we done it. All through dinner Jim stood around and waited on him,
	narrator	and says, "Will yo' Grace have some o' dis or some o' dat?" and so on,
	narrator	and a body could see it was mighty pleasing to him. But the old man got pretty silent by-and-by—didn't have much to say,
	narrator	and didn't look pretty comfortable over all that petting that was going on around that duke.
	narrator	He seemed to have something on his mind. So, along in the afternoon, he says:
	baldhead	Looky here, Bilgewater, I'm nation sorry for you, but you ain't the only person that's had troubles like that.
	bilgewater	No?
	baldhead	No you ain't. You ain't the only person that's ben snaked down wrongfully out'n a high place.
	bilgewater	Alas!
	baldhead	No, you ain't the only person that's had a secret of his birth.
	narrator	And, by jings, he begins to cry.
	bilgewater	Hold! What do you mean?
	baldhead	Bilgewater, kin I trust you? says the old man, still sort of sobbing.
	bilgewater	To the bitter death!
	narrator	He took the old man by the hand and squeezed it, and says,
	bilgewater	That secret of your being: speak!
	baldhead	Bilgewater, I am the late Dauphin!
	narrator	You bet you, Jim and me stared this time. Then the duke says:
	the duke of bridgewater	You are what?
	baldhead	Yes, my friend, it is too true—your eyes is lookin' at this very moment on the pore disappeared Dauphin,
	baldhead	Looy the Seventeen, son of Looy the Sixteen and Marry Antonette.
	narrator	You! At your age! No! You mean you're the late Charlemagne; you must be six or seven hundred years old,
	narrator	at the very least.
	the king	Trouble has done it, Bilgewater, trouble has done it; trouble has brung these gray hairs and this premature balditude.
	the king	Yes, gentlemen, you see before you, in blue jeans and misery, the wanderin', exiled, trampled-on, and sufferin'
	the king	rightful King of France.
	narrator	Well, he cried and took on so that me and Jim didn't know hardly what to do,
	narrator	we was so sorry—and so glad and proud we'd got him with us, too. So we set in,
	narrator	like we done before with the duke, and tried to comfort him.
	the king	It warn't no use, nothing but to be dead and done with it all could do him any good; though he said it often made him feel easier and better for a while if people treated him according to his rights,
	the king	and got down on one knee to speak to him, and always called him "Your Majesty,"
	the king	and waited on him first at meals, and didn't set down in his presence till he asked them.
	narrator	So Jim and me set to majestying him, and doing this and that and t'other for him,
	narrator	and standing up till he told us we might set down. This done him heaps of good,
	narrator	and so he got cheerful and comfortable. But the duke kind of soured on him, and didn't look a bit satisfied with the way things was going; still,
	narrator	the king acted real friendly towards him, and said the duke's great-grandfather and all the other Dukes of Bilgewater was a good deal thought of by his father,
	narrator	and was allowed to come to the palace considerable;
	the king	But the duke stayed huffy a good while, till by-and-by the king says: Like as not we got to be together a blamed long time on this h-yer raft,
	the king	Bilgewater, and so what's the use o' your bein' sour? It'll only make things oncomfortable. It ain't my fault I warn't born a duke,
	the king	it ain't your fault you warn't born a king—so what's the use to worry? Make the best o'
	the king	things the way you find 'em, says I—that's my motto. This ain't no bad thing that we've struck here—plenty grub and an easy life—come,
	the king	give us your hand, Duke, and le's all be friends.
	narrator	The duke done it, and Jim and me was pretty glad to see it. It took away all the uncomfortableness and we felt mighty good over it,
	narrator	because it would a been a miserable business to have any unfriendliness on the raft; for what you want,
	narrator	above all things, on a raft, is for everybody to be satisfied, and feel right and kind towards the others.
	narrator	It didn’t take me long to make up my mind that these liars warn’t no kings nor dukes at all,
	narrator	but just low-down humbugs and frauds. But I never said nothing, never let on; kept it to myself; it’s the best way; then you don’t have no quarrels,
	narrator	and don’t get into no trouble. If they wanted us to call them kings and dukes,
	narrator	I hadn’t no objections, ’long as it would keep peace in the family; and it warn’t no use to tell Jim,
	narrator	so I didn’t tell him. If I never learnt nothing else out of pap, I learnt that the best way to get along with his kind of people is to let them have their own way.
