	narrator	We went tiptoeing along a path amongst the trees back towards the end of the widow’s garden,
	narrator	stooping down so as the branches wouldn’t scrape our heads. When we was passing by the kitchen I fell over a root and made a noise.
	narrator	We scrouched down and laid still.
	miss watson	Who dah?
	narrator	He listened some more; then he come tiptoeing down and stood right between us; we could a touched him,
	narrator	nearly. Well, likely it was minutes and minutes that there warn’t a sound, and we all there so close together.
	narrator	There was a place on my ankle that got to itching, but I dasn’t scratch it; and then my ear begun to itch; and next my back,
	narrator	right between my shoulders. Seemed like I’d die if I couldn’t scratch. Pretty soon Jim says:
	jim	Say, who is you? Whar is you? Dog my cats ef I didn’ hear sumf’n. Well,
	jim	I know what I’s gwyne to do: I’s gwyne to set down here and listen tell I hears it agin.
	narrator	So he set down on the ground betwixt me and Tom. He leaned his back up against a tree,
	narrator	and stretched his legs out till one of them almost touched one of mine. My nose begun to itch.
	narrator	It itched till the tears come into my eyes. But I dasn’t scratch. Then it begun to itch on the inside.
	narrator	Next I got to itching underneath. I didn’t know how I was going to set still.
	narrator	This miserableness went on as much as six or seven minutes; but it seemed a sight longer than that.
	narrator	I was itching in eleven different places now. I reckoned I couldn’t stand it more'n a minute longer,
	narrator	but I set my teeth hard and got ready to try. Just then Jim begun to breathe heavy; next he begun to snore—and then I was pretty soon comfortable again.
	narrator	Tom he made a sign to me—kind of a little noise with his mouth—and we went creeping away on our hands and knees.
	narrator	When we was ten foot off Tom whispered to me, and wanted to tie Jim to the tree for fun.
	huck finn	I said no; he might wake and make a disturbance, and then they’d find out I warn’t in.
	narrator	Then Tom said he hadn’t got candles enough, and he would slip in the kitchen and get some more.
	huck finn	I didn’t want him to try. I said Jim might wake up and come.
	narrator	But Tom wanted to resk it; so we slid in there and got three candles, and Tom laid five cents on the table for pay.
	narrator	Then we got out, and I was in a sweat to get away; but nothing would do Tom but he must crawl to where Jim was,
	narrator	on his hands and knees, and play something on him. I waited, and it seemed a good while,
	narrator	everything was so still and lonesome. As soon as Tom was back we cut along the path,
	narrator	around the garden fence, and by-and-by fetched up on the steep top of the hill the other side of the house.
	tom sawyer	I slipped Jim’s hat off of his head and hung it on a limb right over him,
	tom sawyer	and Jim stirred a little, but he didn’t wake.
	narrator	Afterwards Jim said the witches bewitched him and put him in a trance, and rode him all over the State,
	narrator	and then set him under the trees again, and hung his hat on a limb to show who done it.
	narrator	And next time Jim told it he said they rode him down to New Orleans; and,
	narrator	after that, every time he told it he spread it more and more, till by-and-by he said they rode him all over the world,
	narrator	and tired him most to death, and his back was all over saddle-boils. Jim was monstrous proud about it,
	narrator	and he got so he wouldn’t hardly notice the other niggers. Niggers would come miles to hear Jim tell about it,
	narrator	and he was more looked up to than any nigger in that country. Strange niggers would stand with their mouths open and look him all over,
	narrator	same as if he was a wonder. Niggers is always talking about witches in the dark by the kitchen fire; but whenever one was talking and letting on to know all about such things,
	narrator	Jim would happen in and say, "Hm! What you know ’bout witches?" and that nigger was corked up and had to take a back seat.
	narrator	Jim always kept that five-center piece round his neck with a string, and said it was a charm the devil give to him with his own hands,
	narrator	and told him he could cure anybody with it and fetch witches whenever he wanted to just by saying something to it; but he never told what it was he said to it.
	narrator	Niggers would come from all around there and give Jim anything they had, just for a sight of that five-center piece; but they wouldn’t touch it,
	narrator	because the devil had had his hands on it. Jim was most ruined for a servant,
	narrator	because he got stuck up on account of having seen the devil and been rode by witches.
	narrator	Well, when Tom and me got to the edge of the hilltop we looked away down into the village and could see three or four lights twinkling,
	narrator	where there was sick folks, maybe; and the stars over us was sparkling ever so fine; and down by the village was the river,
	narrator	a whole mile broad, and awful still and grand. We went down the hill and found Jo Harper and Ben Rogers,
	narrator	and two or three more of the boys, hid in the old tanyard. So we unhitched a skiff and pulled down the river two mile and a half,
	narrator	to the big scar on the hillside, and went ashore. We went to a clump of bushes,
	narrator	and Tom made everybody swear to keep the secret, and then showed them a hole in the hill,
	narrator	right in the thickest part of the bushes. Then we lit the candles, and crawled in on our hands and knees.
	narrator	We went about two hundred yards, and then the cave opened up.
	tom sawyer	Tom poked about amongst the passages, and pretty soon ducked under a wall where you wouldn’t a noticed that there was a hole.
	narrator	We went along a narrow place and got into a kind of room, all damp and sweaty and cold,
	narrator	and there we stopped.
	tom sawyer	Tom says: Now, we'll start this band of robbers and call it Tom Sawyer's Gang. Everybody that wants to join has got to take an oath,
	tom sawyer	and write his name in blood.
	narrator	Everybody was willing. So Tom got out a sheet of paper that he had wrote the oath on,
	narrator	and read it.
	tom sawyer	It swore every boy to stick to the band, and never tell any of the secrets; and if anybody done anything to any boy in the band,
	tom sawyer	whichever boy was ordered to kill that person and his family must do it, and he mustn't eat and he mustn't sleep till he had killed them and hacked a cross in their breasts,
	tom sawyer	which was the sign of the band. And nobody that didn't belong to the band could use that mark,
	tom sawyer	and if he did he must be sued; and if he done it again he must be killed.
	tom sawyer	And if anybody that belonged to the band told the secrets, he must have his throat cut,
	tom sawyer	and then have his carcass burnt up and the ashes scattered all around, and his name blotted off of the list with blood and never mentioned again by the gang,
	tom sawyer	but have a curse put on it and be forgot forever.
	narrator	Everybody said it was a real beautiful oath, and asked Tom if he got it out of his own head.
	tom sawyer	He said, some of it, but the rest was out of pirate-books and robber-books, and every gang that was high-toned had it.
	narrator	Some thought it would be good to kill the _families_ of boys that told the secrets.
	narrator	Tom said it was a good idea, so he took a pencil and wrote it in.
	ben rogers	Here's Huck Finn, he hain't got no family; what you going to do 'bout him?
	tom sawyer	Well, hain't he got a father?
	ben rogers	Yes, he's got a father, but you can't never find him these days. He used to lay drunk with the hogs in the tanyard,
	ben rogers	but he hain't been seen in these parts for a year or more.
	narrator	They talked it over, and they was going to rule me out, because they said every boy must have a family or somebody to kill,
	narrator	or else it wouldn't be fair and square for the others. Well, nobody could think of anything to do—everybody was stumped,
	narrator	and set still. I was most ready to cry; but all at once I thought of a way,
	narrator	and so I offered them Miss Watson—they could kill her. Everybody said: "Oh, she'll do. That's all right.
	narrator	Huck can come in." Then they all stuck a pin in their fingers to get blood to sign with,
	narrator	and I made my mark on the paper.
	ben rogers	Now, what's the line of business of this Gang?
	tom sawyer	Nothing only robbery and murder.
	ben rogers	But who are we going to rob?—houses, or cattle, or—
	tom sawyer	Stuff! stealing cattle and such things ain't robbery; it's burglary, says Tom Sawyer. "We ain't burglars.
	tom sawyer	That ain't no sort of style. We are highwaymen. We stop stages and carriages on the road,
	tom sawyer	with masks on, and kill the people and take their watches and money.
	ben rogers	Must we always kill the people?
	tom sawyer	Oh, certainly. It's best. Some authorities think different, but mostly it's considered best to kill them—except some that you bring to the cave here,
	tom sawyer	and keep them till they're ransomed.
	ben rogers	Ransomed? What's that?
	tom sawyer	I don't know. But that's what they do. I've seen it in books; and so of course that's what we've got to do.
	ben rogers	But how can we do it if we don't know what it is?
	tom sawyer	Why, blame it all, we've _got_ to do it. Don't I tell you it's in the books?
	tom sawyer	Do you want to go to doing different from what's in the books, and get things all muddled up?
	ben rogers	Oh, that's all very fine to _say_, Tom Sawyer, but how in the nation are these fellows going to be ransomed if we don't know how to do it to them?—that's the thing _I_ want to get at.
	ben rogers	Now, what do you _reckon_ it is?
	tom sawyer	Well, I don't know. But per'aps if we keep them till they're ransomed, it means that we keep them till they're dead.
	ben rogers	Now, that's something _like_. That'll answer. Why couldn't you said that before? We'll keep them till they're ransomed to death; and a bothersome lot they'll be,
	ben rogers	too—eating up everything, and always trying to get loose.
	tom sawyer	How you talk, Ben Rogers. How can they get loose when there's a guard over them,
	tom sawyer	ready to shoot them down if they move a peg?
	ben rogers	A guard! Well, that _is_ good. So somebody's got to set up all night and never get any sleep,
	ben rogers	just so as to watch them. I think that's foolishness. Why can't a body take a club and ransom them as soon as they get here?
	tom sawyer	Because it ain't in the books so—that's why. Now, Ben Rogers, do you want to do things regular,
	tom sawyer	or don't you?—that's the idea. Don't you reckon that the people that made the books knows what's the correct thing to do?
	tom sawyer	Do you reckon _you_ can learn 'em anything? Not by a good deal. No, sir, we'll just go on and ransom them in the regular way.
	ben rogers	All right. I don't mind; but I say it's a fool way, anyhow. Say, do we kill the women,
	ben rogers	too?
	tom sawyer	Well, Ben Rogers, if I was as ignorant as you I wouldn't let on. Kill the women?
	tom sawyer	No; nobody ever saw anything in the books like that. You fetch them to the cave,
	tom sawyer	and you're always as polite as pie to them; and by-and-by they fall in love with you,
	tom sawyer	and never want to go home any more.
	ben rogers	Well, if that's the way I'm agreed, but I don't take no stock in it. Mighty soon we'll have the cave so cluttered up with women,
	ben rogers	and fellows waiting to be ransomed, that there won't be no place for the robbers. But go ahead,
	ben rogers	I ain't got nothing to say.
	narrator	Little Tommy Barnes was asleep now, and when they waked him up he was scared, and cried,
	narrator	and said he wanted to go home to his ma, and didn't want to be a robber any more.
	narrator	So they all made fun of him, and called him cry-baby, and that made him mad,
	narrator	and he said he would go straight and tell all the secrets.
	tom sawyer	But Tom give him five cents to keep quiet, and said we would all go home and meet next week,
	tom sawyer	and rob somebody and kill some people.
	ben rogers	I couldn't get out much, only Sundays, and so he wanted to begin next Sunday; but all the boys said it would be wicked to do it on Sunday,
	ben rogers	and that settled the thing.
	narrator	They agreed to get together and fix a day as soon as they could, and then we elected Tom Sawyer first captain and Jo Harper second captain of the Gang,
	narrator	and so started home. I clumb up the shed and crept into my window just before day was breaking.
	narrator	My new clothes was all greased up and clayey, and I was dog-tired.
