	narrator	VII
	narrator	THE ADVENTURE OF ARTHUR AND SIR ACCOLON OF GAUL
	narrator	Being now happily married, King Arthur for a season took his pleasure,
	narrator	with great tournaments, and jousts, and huntings.
	narrator	So once upon a time
	narrator	the king and many of his knights rode hunting in a forest, and Arthur,
	narrator	King Urience, and Sir Accolon of Gaul, followed after a great hart, and
	narrator	being all three well mounted, they chased so fast that they outsped
	narrator	their company, and left them many miles behind; but riding still as
	narrator	rapidly as they could go, at length their horses fell dead under them.
	narrator	Then being all three on foot, and seeing the stag not far before them,
	narrator	very weary and nigh spent--"What shall we do," said King Arthur, "for we
	narrator	are hard bested?"
	narrator	"Let us go on afoot," said King Urience, "till we can
	narrator	find some lodging."
	narrator	At that they saw the stag lying upon the bank of a
	narrator	great lake, with a hound springing at his throat, and many other hounds
	narrator	trooping towards him.
	narrator	So, running forward, Arthur blew the death-note on
	narrator	his horn, and slew the hart.
	narrator	Then lifting up his eyes he saw before him
	narrator	on the lake a barge, all draped down to the water's edge, with silken
	narrator	folds and curtains, which swiftly came towards him, and touched upon
	narrator	the sands; but when he went up close and looked in, he saw no earthly
	narrator	creature.
	narrator	Then he cried out to his companions, "Sirs, come ye hither,
	narrator	and let us see what there is in this ship."
	narrator	So they all three went in,
	narrator	and found it everywhere throughout furnished, and hung with rich
	narrator	draperies of silk and gold.
	narrator	By this time eventide had come, when suddenly a hundred torches were set
	narrator	up on all sides of the barge, and gave a dazzling light, and at the same
	narrator	time came forth twelve fair damsels, and saluted King Arthur by his
	narrator	name, kneeling on their knees, and telling him that he was welcome, and
	narrator	should have their noblest cheer, for which the king thanked them
	narrator	courteously.
	narrator	Then did they lead him and his fellows to a splendid
	narrator	chamber, where was a table spread with all the richest furniture, and
	narrator	costliest wines and viands; and there they served them with all kinds of
	narrator	wines and meats, till Arthur wondered at the splendor of the feast,
	narrator	declaring he had never in his life supped better, or more royally.
	narrator	After
	narrator	supper they led him to another chamber, than which he had never beheld a
	narrator	richer, where he was left to rest.
	narrator	King Urience, also, and Sir Accolon
	narrator	were each conducted into rooms of like magnificence.
	narrator	And so they all
	narrator	three fell asleep, and being very weary slept deeply all that night.
	narrator	But when the morning broke, King Urience found himself in his own house
	narrator	in Camelot, he knew not how; and Arthur awaking found himself in a dark
	narrator	dungeon, and heard around him nothing but the groans of woeful knights,
	narrator	prisoners like himself.
	narrator	Then said King Arthur, "Who are ye, thus
	narrator	groaning and complaining?"
	narrator	And some one answered him, "Alas, we be all
	narrator	prisoners, even twenty good knights, and some of us have lain here seven
	narrator	years--some more--nor seen the light of day for all that time."
	narrator	"For
	narrator	what cause?" said King Arthur. "Know ye not then yourself?" they
	narrator	answered--"we will soon tell you. The lord of this strong castle is Sir
	narrator	Damas, and is the falsest and most traitorous knight that liveth; and he
	narrator	hath a younger brother, a good and noble knight, whose name is Outzlake.
	narrator	This traitor Damas, although passing rich, will give his brother nothing
	narrator	of his wealth, and save what Outzlake keepeth to himself by force, he
	narrator	hath no share of the inheritance.
	narrator	He owneth, nevertheless, one fair rich
	narrator	manor, whereupon he liveth, loved of all men far and near.
	narrator	But Damas is
	narrator	as altogether hated as his brother is beloved, for he is merciless and
	narrator	cowardly: and now for many years there hath been war between these
	narrator	brothers, and Sir Outzlake evermore defieth Damas to come forth and
	narrator	fight with him, body to body, for the inheritance; and if he be too
	narrator	cowardly, to find some champion knight that will fight for him.
	narrator	And
	narrator	Damas hath agreed to find some champion, but never yet hath found a
	narrator	knight to take his evil cause in hand, or wager battle for him.
	narrator	So with
	narrator	a strong band of men-at-arms he lieth ever in ambush, and taketh
	narrator	captive every passing knight who may unwarily go near and bringeth him
	narrator	into this castle, and desireth him either to fight Sir Outzlake, or to
	narrator	lie for evermore indurance.
	narrator	And thus hath he dealt with all of us, for
	narrator	we all scorned to take up such a cause for such a false foul knight--but
	narrator	rather one by one came here, where many a good knight hath died of
	narrator	hunger and disease.
	narrator	But if one of us would fight, Sir Damas would
	narrator	deliver all the rest."
	narrator	'God of his mercy send you deliverance,' said King Arthur, and sat
	narrator	turning in his mind how all these things should end, and how he might
	narrator	himself gain freedom for so many noble hearts.
	narrator	Anon there came a damsel to the king, saying, "Sir, if thou wilt fight
	narrator	for my lord thou shalt be delivered out of prison, but else nevermore
	narrator	shalt thou escape with thy life."
	narrator	"Nay," said King Arthur, "that is but
	narrator	a hard choice, yet had I rather fight than die in prison, and if I may
	narrator	deliver not myself alone, but all these others, I will do the battle."
	narrator	'Yea,' said the damsel, 'it shall be even so.'
	narrator	'Then,' said King Arthur, 'I am ready now, if but I had a horse and armor.'
	narrator	'Fear not,' said she, 'that shalt thou have presently, and shalt lack
	narrator	nothing proper for the fight.'
	narrator	'Have I not seen thee,' said the king, 'at King Arthur's court?
	narrator	for it seemeth that thy face is known to me.'
	narrator	'Nay,' said the damsel, 'I was never there; I am Sir Damas' daughter,
	narrator	and have never been but a day's journey from this castle.'
	narrator	But she
	narrator	spoke falsely, for she was one of the damsels of Morgan le Fay, the
	narrator	great enchantress, who was King Arthur's half-sister.
	narrator	When Sir Damas knew that there had been at length a knight found who would fight for him
	narrator	he sent for Arthur, and finding him a man so tall and strong, and straight of limb
	narrator	he was passingly well pleased, and made a covenant with him, that he should fight unto the uttermost for his cause
	narrator	and that all the other knights should be delivered.
	narrator	And when they were sworn to each other on the Holy Gospels, all those imprisoned knights were straightway led forth and delivered
	narrator	but abode there one and all to see the battle.
	narrator	In the meanwhile there had happened to Sir Accolon of Gaul a strange adventure; for when he awoke from his deep sleep upon the silken
	narrator	barge
	narrator	he found himself upon the edge of a deep well, and in instant peril of falling thereinto.
	narrator	Whereat, leaping up in great affright, he crossed himself and cried aloud,
	sir accolon of gaul	May God preserve my lord King Arthur and King Urience, for those damsels in the ship have betrayed us
	sir accolon of gaul	and were doubtless devils and no women; and if I may escape this misadventure, I will certainly destroy them wheresoever I may find them.
	narrator	With that there came to him a dwarf with a great mouth, and a flat nose, and saluted him
	narrator	saying that he came from Queen Morgan le Fay.
	dwarf	And she greeteth you well,
	dwarf	and biddeth you be strong of heart, for to-morrow you shall do battle with a strange knight
	dwarf	and therefore she hath sent you here Excalibur, King Arthur's sword, and the scabbard likewise.
	dwarf	And she desireth you as you do love her to fight this battle to the uttermost, and without any mercy
	dwarf	as you have promised her you would fight when she should require it of you; and she will make a rich queen forever of any
	dwarf	damsel that shall bring her that knight's head with whom you are to fight.
	sir accolon of gaul	Well,
	sir accolon of gaul	tell you my lady Queen Morgan, that I shall hold to that I promised her, now that I have this sword--and,
	sir accolon of gaul	I suppose it was to bring about this battle that she made all these enchantments by her craft.
	dwarf	You have guessed rightly,
	dwarf	said the dwarf, and therewithal he left him.
	narrator	Then came a knight and lady, and six squires, to Sir Accolon, and took him to a manor house hard by
	narrator	and gave him noble cheer; and the house belonged to Sir Outzlake, the brother of Sir Damas
	narrator	for so had Morgan le Fay contrived with her enchantments.
	narrator	Now Sir Outzlake himself was at that time sorely wounded and disabled, having been pierced through both his thighs by a spear-thrust.
	narrator	When, therefore, Sir Damas sent down messengers to his brother, bidding him make ready by to-morrow morning
	narrator	and be in the field to fight with a good knight, for that he had found a champion ready to do battle at all points
	narrator	Sir Outzlake was sorely annoyed and distressed, for he knew he had small chance of victory, while yet he was disabled by his wounds; notwithstanding
	narrator	he determined to take the battle in hand, although he was so weak that he must needs be lifted to his saddle.
	narrator	But when Sir Accolon of Gaul heard this, he sent a message to Sir Outzlake offering to take the battle in his stead
	narrator	which cheered Sir Outzlake mightily, who thanked Sir Accolon with all his heart, and joyfully accepted him.
	narrator	So, on the morrow, King Arthur was armed and well horsed, and asked Sir Damas,
	king arthur	When shall we go to the field?
	sir damas	Sir,
	sir damas	you shall first hear mass.
	narrator	And when mass was done, there came a squire on a great horse, and asked Sir Damas if his knight were ready
	narrator	'for our knight is already in the field.'
	narrator	Then King Arthur mounted on horseback, and there around were all the knights, and barons, and people of the country; and twelve of them were
	narrator	chosen to wait upon the two knights who were about to fight.
	narrator	And as King Arthur sat on horseback, there came a damsel from Morgan le Fay, and brought to him a sword
	narrator	made like Excalibur, and a scabbard also, and said to him,
	damsel of morgan le fay	Morgan le Fay sendeth you here your sword for her great love's sake.
	king arthur	The king thanked her, and believed it to be as she said; but she traitorously deceived him
	king arthur	for both sword and scabbard were counterfeit, brittle, and false, and the true sword Excalibur was in the hands of Sir Accolon.
	narrator	Then, at the sound of a trumpet, the champions set themselves on opposite side of the field
	narrator	and giving rein and spur to their horses urged them to so great a speed that each smiting the other in the middle of the
	narrator	shield
	narrator	rolled his opponent to the ground, both horse and man.
	narrator	Then starting up immediately, both drew their swords and rushed swiftly together.
	narrator	And so they fell to eagerly, and gave each other many great and mighty strokes.
	narrator	And as they were thus fighting, the damsel Vivien, lady of the lake, who loved King Arthur
	narrator	came upon the ground, for she knew by her enchantments how Morgan le Fay had craftily devised to have King Arthur slain by his own
	narrator	sword that day
	narrator	and therefore came to save his life.
	narrator	And Arthur and Sir Accolon were now grown hot against each other, and spared not strength nor fury in their fierce assaults; but the king's
	narrator	sword gave way continually before Sir Accolon's
	narrator	so that at every stroke he was sore wounded, and his blood ran from him so fast that it was a marvel he could stand.
	narrator	When King Arthur saw the ground so sore be-blooded, he bethought him in dismay that there was magic treason worked upon him
	narrator	and that his own true sword was changed, for it seemed to him that the sword in Sir Accolon's hand was Excalibur
	narrator	for fearfully it drew his blood at every blow, while what he held himself kept no sharp edge
	narrator	nor fell with any force upon his foe.
	sir accolon of gaul	Now, knight, look to thyself, and keep thee well from me,
	narrator	cried out Sir Accolon.
	narrator	But King Arthur answered not, and gave him such a buffet on the helm as made him stagger and nigh fall upon the ground.
	sir accolon of gaul	Then Sir Accolon withdrew a little, and came on with Excalibur on high, and smote King Arthur in return with such a mighty stroke as
	sir accolon of gaul	almost felled him; and both being now in hottest wrath
	sir accolon of gaul	they gave each other grievous and savage blows.
	narrator	But Arthur all the time was losing so much blood that scarcely could he keep upon his feet
	narrator	yet so full was he of knighthood, that knightly he endured the pain, and still sustained himself
	narrator	though now he was so feeble that he thought himself about to die.
	sir accolon of gaul	Sir Accolon, as yet, had lost no drop of blood, and being very bold and confident in Excalibur
	sir accolon of gaul	even grew more vigorous and hasty in his assaults.
	narrator	But all men who beheld them said they never saw a knight fight half so well as did King Arthur
	narrator	and all the people were so grieved for him that they besought Sir Damas and Sir Outzlake to make up their quarrel and so stay
	narrator	the fight; but they would not.
	narrator	So still the battle raged, till Arthur drew a little back for breath and a few moments' rest; but Accolon came on after him
	narrator	following fiercely and crying loud,
	sir accolon of gaul	It is no time for me to suffer thee to rest,
	narrator	and therewith set upon him.
	narrator	Then Arthur, full of scorn and rage, lifted up his sword and struck Sir Accolon upon the helm so mightily that he drove him to
	narrator	his knees; but with the force of that great stroke his brittle
	narrator	treacherous sword broke short off at the hilt, and fell down in the grass among the blood
	narrator	leaving the pommel only in his hand.
	narrator	At that, King Arthur thought within himself that all was over, and secretly prepared his mind for death
	narrator	yet kept himself so knightly sheltered by his shield that he lost no ground, and made as though he yet had hope and cheer.
	sir accolon of gaul	Then said Sir Accolon, "Sir knight, thou now art overcome and canst endure no longer, seeing thou art weaponless
	sir accolon of gaul	and hast lost already so much blood. Yet am I fully loth to slay thee; yield, then
	sir accolon of gaul	therefore, to me as recreant.
	king arthur	Nay,
	king arthur	that may I not, for I have promised to do battle to the uttermost by the faith of my body while my life lasteth; and
	king arthur	I had rather die with honor than live with shame; and if it were possible for me to die an hundred times
	king arthur	I had rather die as often than yield me to thee, for though I lack weapons, I shall lack no worship
	king arthur	and it shall be to thy shame to slay me weaponless.
	sir accolon of gaul	Aha,
	sir accolon of gaul	as for the shame, I will not spare; look to thyself, sir knight, for thou art even now but a dead man.
	narrator	Therewith he drove at him with pitiless force, and struck him nearly down; but Arthur evermore waxing in valor as he waned in blood
	narrator	pressed on Sir Accolon with his shield, and hit at him so fiercely with the pommel in his hand
	narrator	as hurled him three strides backward.
	narrator	This, therefore, so confused Sir Accolon, that rushing up, all dizzy, to deliver once again a furious blow
	narrator	even as he struck, Excalibur, by Vivien's magic, fell from out his hands upon the earth.
	narrator	Beholding which, King Arthur lightly sprang to it, and grasped it, and forthwith felt it was his own good sword
	narrator	and said to it,
	king arthur	Thou hast been from me all too long, and done me too much damage.
	narrator	Then spying the scabbard hanging by Sir Accolon's side, he sprang and pulled it from him, and cast it away as far as he could
	narrator	throw it; for so long as he had worn it
	narrator	Arthur knew his life would have been kept secure.
	king arthur	Oh, knight!
	king arthur	thou hast this day wrought me much damage by this sword, but now art thou come to thy death
	king arthur	for I shall not warrant thee but that thou shalt suffer, ere we part, somewhat of that thou hast made me suffer.
	narrator	And therewithal King Arthur flew at him with all his might, and pulled him to the earth
	narrator	and then struck off his helm, and gave him on the head a fearful buffet, till the blood leaped forth.
	king arthur	Now will I slay thee!
	narrator	cried King Arthur; for his heart was hardened, and his body all on fire with fever, till for a moment he forgot his knightly mercy.
	sir accolon of gaul	Slay me thou mayest,
	sir accolon of gaul	for thou art the best knight I ever found, and I see well that God is with thee; and I
	sir accolon of gaul	as thou hast, have promised to fight this battle to the uttermost, and never to be recreant while I live; therefore shall I never yield
	sir accolon of gaul	me with my mouth
	sir accolon of gaul	and God must do with my body what he will.
	narrator	And as Sir Accolon spoke, King Arthur thought he knew his voice; and parting all his blood-stained hair from out his eyes
	narrator	and leaning down towards him, saw, indeed, it was his friend and own true knight.
	king arthur	Then said he--keeping his own visor down--"I pray thee tell me of what country art thou, and what court?
	sir accolon of gaul	Sir knight,
	sir accolon of gaul	he answered, "I am of King Arthur's court, and my name is Sir Accolon of Gaul.
	king arthur	Then said the king, "Oh, sir knight! I pray thee tell me who gave thee this sword? and from whom thou hadst it?
	sir accolon of gaul	Then said Sir Accolon, "Woe worth this sword, for by it I have gotten my death. This sword hath been in my keeping now for
	sir accolon of gaul	almost twelve months
	sir accolon of gaul	and yesterday Queen Morgan le Fay, wife of King Urience, sent it to me by a dwarf
	sir accolon of gaul	that therewith I might in some way slay her brother, King Arthur; for thou must understand that King Arthur is the man she hateth most
	sir accolon of gaul	in all the world
	sir accolon of gaul	being full of envy and jealousy because he is of greater worship and renown than any other of her blood. She loveth me also as
	sir accolon of gaul	much as she doth hate him; and if she might contrive to slay King Arthur by her craft and magic
	sir accolon of gaul	then would she straightway kill her husband also, and make me the king of all this land
	sir accolon of gaul	and herself my queen, to reign with me; but now," said he, "all that is over, for this day I am come to my death.
	king arthur	It would have been sore treason of thee to destroy thy lord.
	sir accolon of gaul	Thou sayest truly, but now that I have told thee, and openly confessed to thee all that foul treason whereof I now do bitterly repent
	sir accolon of gaul	tell me, I pray thee, whence art thou, and of what court?
	king arthur	O, Sir Accolon! learn that I am myself King Arthur.
	sir accolon of gaul	Alas, my gracious lord! have mercy on me, for I knew thee not.
	king arthur	Thou shalt have mercy, for thou knewest not my person at this time; and though by thine own confession thou art a traitor
	king arthur	yet do I blame thee less, because thou hast been blinded by the false crafts of my sister Morgan le Fay
	king arthur	whom I have trusted more than all others of my kin, and whom I now shall know well how to punish.
	sir accolon of gaul	O, lords, and all good people! this noble knight that I have fought with is the noblest and most worshipful in all the world; for
	sir accolon of gaul	it is King Arthur
	sir accolon of gaul	our liege lord and sovereign king; and full sorely I repent that I have ever lifted lance against him
	sir accolon of gaul	though in ignorance I did it.
	narrator	Then all the people fell down on their knees and prayed the pardon of the king for suffering him to come to such a strait.
	king arthur	Pardon ye cannot have, for, truly, ye have nothing sinned; but here ye see what ill adventure may ofttimes befall knights-errant
	king arthur	for to my own hurt, and his danger also, I have fought with one of my own knights.
	king arthur	Then the king commanded Sir Damas to surrender to his brother the whole manor, Sir Outzlake only yielding him a palfrey every year; for
	king arthur	said he scornfully, it would become thee better to ride on than a courser; and ordered Damas
	king arthur	upon pain of death, never again to touch or to distress knights-errant riding on their adventures; and also to make full compensation and satisfaction to
	king arthur	the twenty knights whom he had held in prison. And if any of them
	king arthur	said the king, come to my court complaining that he hath not had full satisfaction of thee for his injuries
	king arthur	by my head, thou shalt die therefor.
	narrator	Afterwards, King Arthur asked Sir Outzlake to come with him to his court, where he should become a knight of his
	narrator	and, if his deeds were noble, be advanced to all he might desire.
	narrator	So then he took his leave of all the people and mounted upon horseback, and Sir Accolon went with him to an abbey hard by
	narrator	where both their wounds were dressed.
	narrator	But Sir Accolon died within four days after.
	narrator	And when he was dead, the king sent his body to Queen Morgan, to Camelot, saying that he sent her a present in return for
	narrator	the sword Excalibur which she had sent him by the damsel.
	narrator	So, on the morrow, there came a damsel from Queen Morgan to the king, and brought with her the richest mantle that ever was seen
	narrator	for it was set as full of precious stones as they could stand against each other, and they were the richest stones that ever the
	narrator	king saw.
	narrator	And the damsel said, "Your sister sendeth you this mantle, and prayeth you to take her gift
	narrator	and in whatsoever thing she hath offended you, she will amend it at your pleasure." To this the king replied not
	narrator	although the mantle pleased him much.
	narrator	With that came in the lady of the lake, and said, "Sir, put not on this mantle till thou hast seen more; and in nowise
	narrator	let it be put upon thee
	narrator	or any of thy knights, till ye have made the bringer of it first put it on her." "It shall be done as thou dost
	narrator	counsel," said the king.
	king arthur	Then said he to the damsel that came from his sister, "Damsel, I would see this mantle ye have brought me upon yourself.
	damsel of morgan le fay	Sir, it will not beseem me to wear a knight's garment.
	king arthur	By my head, thou shalt wear it ere it go on any other person's back!
	narrator	And so they put it on her by force, and forthwith the garment burst into a flame and burned the damsel into cinders.
	narrator	When the king saw that, he hated that false witch Morgan le Fay with all his heart
	narrator	and evermore was deadly quarrel between her and Arthur to their lives' end.
