	narrator	Now there was a knight at the court more envious than the others of Sir Balin, for he counted himself one of the best knights
	narrator	in Britain.
	narrator	His name was Lancear; and going to the king, he begged leave to follow after Sir Balin and avenge the insult he had put upon
	narrator	the court.
	king arthur	Do thy best, for I am passing wroth with Balin.
	narrator	In the meantime came Merlin, and was told of this adventure of the sword and lady of the lake.
	merlin	Now hear me, when I tell ye that this lady who hath brought the sword is the falsest damsel living.
	narrator	'Say not so,' they answered, 'for she hath a brother a good knight, who slew another knight this damsel loved; so she
	narrator	to be revenged upon her brother, went to the Lady Lile, of Avilion, and besought her help.
	narrator	Then Lady Lile gave her the sword, and told her that no man should draw it forth but one
	narrator	a valiant knight and strong, who should avenge her on her brother.
	narrator	This, therefore, was the reason why the damsel came here.'
	merlin	I know it all as well as ye do; and would to God she had never come hither
	merlin	for never came she into any company but to do harm; and that good knight who hath achieved the sword shall be himself slain by
	merlin	it
	merlin	which shall be great harm and loss, for a better knight there liveth not; and he shall do unto my lord the king great honor
	merlin	and service.
	narrator	Then Sir Lancear, having armed himself at all points, mounted, and rode after Sir Balin, as fast as he could go
	narrator	and overtaking him, he cried aloud, 'Abide, Sir knight! wait yet awhile, or I shall make thee do so.'
	sir balin	Fair knight, what wilt thou with me? wilt thou joust?
	sir lancear	Yea, it is for that I have pursued thee.
	sir balin	Peradventure, thou hadst best have stayed at home, for many a man who thinketh himself already victor
	sir balin	endeth by his own downfall. Of what court art thou?
	sir lancear	Of King Arthur's court, and I am come to revenge the insult thou hast put on it this day.
	sir balin	Well, I see that I must fight thee, and I repent to be obliged to grieve King Arthur or his knights; and thy quarrel seemeth
	sir balin	full foolish to me
	sir balin	for the damsel that is dead worked endless evils through the land, or else I had been loth as any knight that liveth to have
	sir balin	slain a lady.
	sir lancear	Make thee ready, for one of us shall rest forever in this field.
	narrator	But at their first encounter Sir Lancear's spear flew into splinters from Sir Balin's shield, and Sir Balin's lance pierced with such might through Sir
	narrator	Lancear's shield
	narrator	that it rove the hauberk also, and passed through the knight's body and the horse's crupper.
	narrator	And Sir Balin turning fiercely round again, drew out his sword, and knew not that he had already slain him; and then he saw him
	narrator	lie a corpse upon the ground.
	narrator	At that same moment came a damsel riding towards him as fast as her horse could gallop
	narrator	who, when she saw Sir Lancear dead, wept and sorrowed out of measure, crying, 'O, Sir Balin
	narrator	two bodies hast thou slain, and one heart; and two hearts in one body; and two souls also hast thou lost.'
	narrator	Therewith she took the sword from her dead lover's side--for she was Sir Lancear's lady-love--and setting the pommel of it on the ground
	narrator	ran herself through the body with the blade.
	narrator	When Sir Balin saw her dead he was sorely hurt and grieved in spirit, and repented the death of Lancear
	narrator	which had also caused so fair a lady's death.
	narrator	And being unable to look on their bodies for sorrow, he turned aside into a forest, where presently as he rode
	narrator	he saw the arms of his brother, Sir Balan.
	narrator	And when they were met they put off their helms, and embraced each other, kissing, and weeping for joy and pity.
	narrator	Then Sir Balin told Sir Balan all his late adventures, and that he was on his way to King Ryence
	narrator	who at that time was besieging Castle Terrabil. 'I will be with thee,' answered Sir Balan, 'and we will help each other
	narrator	as brethren ought to do.'
	narrator	Anon by chance, as they were talking, came King Mark, of Cornwall, by that way, and when he saw the two dead bodies of Sir
	narrator	Lancear and his lady lying there
	narrator	and heard the story of their death, he vowed to build a tomb to them before he left that place.
	narrator	So pitching his pavilion there, he sought through all the country round to find a monument, and found at last a rich and fair one
	narrator	in a church
	narrator	which he took and raised above the dead knight and his damsel, writing on it--'Here lieth Lancear
	narrator	son of the King of Ireland, who, at his own request, was slain by Balin; and here beside him also lieth his lady Colombe
	narrator	who slew herself with her lover's sword for grief and sorrow.'
	narrator	Then as Sir Balin and Sir Balan rode away, Merlin met with them, and said to Balin
	narrator	'Thou hast done thyself great harm not to have saved that lady's life who slew herself; and because of it
	narrator	thou shalt strike the most Dolorous Stroke that ever man struck, save he that smote our Lord.
	narrator	For thou shalt smite the truest and most worshipful of living knights, who shall not be recovered from his wounds for many years
	narrator	and through that stroke three kingdoms shall be overwhelmed in poverty and misery.'
	sir balin	If I believed, what thou sayest, I would slay myself to make thee a liar.
	narrator	At that Merlin vanished suddenly away; but afterwards he met them in disguise towards night, and told them he could lead them to King Ryence
	narrator	whom they sought. 'For this night he is to ride with sixty lances only through a wood hard by.'
	narrator	So Sir Balin and Sir Balan hid themselves within the wood, and at midnight came out from their ambush among the leaves by the highway
	narrator	and waited for the king, whom presently they heard approaching with his company.
	narrator	Then did they suddenly leap forth and smote at him and overthrew him and laid him on the ground
	narrator	and turning on his company wounded and slew forty of them, and put the rest to flight.
	narrator	And returning to King Ryence they would have slain him there, but he craved mercy, and yielded to their grace
	narrator	crying,
	king ryence	Knights full of prowess, slay me not; for by my life ye may win something--but my death can avail ye nought.
	narrator	'Ye say truth,' said the two knights, and put him in a horse-litter, and went swiftly through all the night
	narrator	till at cock-crow they came to King Arthur's palace.
	narrator	There they delivered him to the warders and porters, to be brought before the king, with this message--'That he was sent to King Arthur by
	narrator	the knight of the two swords' (for so was Balin known by name
	narrator	since his adventure with the damsel) 'and by his brother.'
	narrator	And so they rode away again ere sunrise.
	narrator	Within a month or two thereafter, King Arthur being somewhat sick, went forth outside the town, and had his pavilion pitched in a meadow
	narrator	and there abode, and laid him down on a pallet to sleep, but could get no rest.
	narrator	And as he lay he heard the sound of a great horse, and looking out of the tent door
	narrator	saw a knight ride by, making great lamentation.
	king arthur	Abide, fair sir, and tell me wherefore thou makest this sorrow.
	narrator	'Ye may little amend it,' said the knight, and so passed on.
	narrator	Presently after Sir Balin, rode, by chance, past that meadow, and when he saw the king he alighted and came to him on foot
	narrator	and kneeled and saluted him.
	king arthur	By my head, ye be welcome, Sir Balin;
	narrator	and then he thanked him heartily for revenging him upon King Ryence, and for sending him so speedily a prisoner to his castle
	narrator	and told him how King Nero, Ryence's brother, had attacked him afterwards to deliver Ryence from prison; and how he had defeated him and slain
	narrator	him
	narrator	and also King Lot, of Orkney, who was joined with Nero, and whom King Pellinore had killed in the battle.
	narrator	Then when they had thus talked, King Arthur told Sir Balin of the sullen knight that had just passed his tent
	narrator	and desired him to pursue him and to bring him back.
	narrator	So Sir Balin rode and overtook the knight in a forest with a damsel, and said,
	sir balin	Sir knight, thou must come back with me unto my lord, King Arthur, to tell him the cause of thy sorrow
	sir balin	which thou hast refused even now to do.
	narrator	'That will I not,' replied the knight, 'for it would harm me much, and do him no advantage.'
	sir balin	Sir, I pray thee make ready, for thou must needs go with me--or else I must fight with thee and take thee by force.
	narrator	'Wilt thou be warrant for safe conduct, if I go with thee?' inquired the knight.
	sir balin	Yea, surely, answered Balin, 'I will die else.
	narrator	So the knight made ready to go with Sir Balin, and left the damsel in the wood.
	narrator	But as they went, there came one invisible, and smote the knight through the body with a spear.
	sir herleus	Alas, cried Sir Herleus (for so was he named), 'I am slain under thy guard and conduct
	sir herleus	by that traitor knight called Garlon, who through magic and witchcraft rideth invisibly.
	narrator	Take, therefore, my horse, which is better than thine, and ride to the damsel whom we left
	narrator	and follow the quest I had in hand, as she will lead thee--and revenge my death when thou best mayest.'
	sir balin	That will I do, said Sir Balin, 'by my knighthood, and so I swear to thee.
	narrator	Then went Sir Balin to the damsel, and rode forth with her; she carrying ever with her the truncheon of the spear wherewith Sir Herleus
	narrator	had been slain.
	narrator	And as they went, a good knight, Perin de Mountbelgard, joined their company, and vowed to take adventure with them wheresoever they might go.
	narrator	But presently as they passed a hermitage fast by a churchyard, came the knight Garlon, again invisible
	narrator	and smote Sir Perin through the body with a spear, and slew him as he had slain Sir Herleus.
	narrator	Whereat, Sir Balin greatly raged, and swore to have Sir Garlon's life, whenever next he might encounter and behold him in his bodily shape.
	narrator	Anon, he and the hermit buried the good knight Sir Perin, and rode on with the damsel till they came to a great castle
	narrator	whereinto they were about to enter.
	narrator	But when Sir Balin had passed through the gateway, the portcullis fell behind him suddenly, leaving the damsel on the outer side
	narrator	with men around her, drawing their swords as if to slay her.
	narrator	When he saw that, Sir Balin climbed with eager haste by wall and tower, and leaped into the castle moat
	narrator	and rushed towards the damsel and her enemies, with his sword drawn, to fight and slay them.
	narrator	But they cried out, 'Put up thy sword, Sir knight, we will not fight thee in this quarrel
	narrator	for we do nothing but an ancient custom of this castle.'
	narrator	Then they told him that the lady of the castle was passing sick, and had lain ill for many years
	narrator	and might never more be cured, unless she had a silver dish full of the blood of a pure maid and a king's daughter.
	narrator	Wherefore the custom of the castle was, that never should a damsel pass that way but she must give a dish full of her blood.
	narrator	Then Sir Balin suffered them to bleed the damsel with her own consent, but her blood helped not the lady of the castle.
	narrator	So on the morrow they departed, after right good cheer and rest.
	narrator	Then they rode three or four days without adventure, and came at last to the abode of a rich man
	narrator	who sumptuously lodged and fed them.
	narrator	And while they sat at supper Sir Balin heard a voice of some one groaning grievously.
	sir balin	What noise is this?
	narrator	Forsooth,
	the host	I will tell you. I was lately at a tournament, and there I fought a knight who is brother to King Pelles
	the host	and overthrew him twice, for which he swore to be revenged on me through my best friend
	the host	and so he wounded my son, who cannot be recovered till I have that knight's blood, but he rideth through witchcraft always invisibly
	the host	and I know not his name.
	sir balin	Ah, but I know him; his name is Garlon, and he hath slain two knights, companions of mine own
	sir balin	in the same fashion, and I would rather than all the riches in this realm that I might meet him face to face.
	the host	Well, let me now tell thee that King Pelles hath proclaimed in all the country a great festival
	the host	to be held at Listeniss, in twenty days from now, whereto no knight may come without a lady. At that great feast we might perchance
	the host	find out this Garlon
	the host	for many will be there; and if it please thee we will set forth together.
	narrator	So on the morrow they rode all three towards Listeniss, and traveled fifteen days, and reached it on the day the feast began.
	narrator	Then they alighted and stabled their horses, and went up to the castle, and Sir Balin's host was denied entrance
	narrator	having no lady with him.
	narrator	But Sir Balin was right heartily received, and taken to a chamber, where they unarmed him, and dressed him in rich robes
	narrator	of any color that he chose, and told him he must lay aside his sword.
	narrator	This, however, he refused, and said,
	sir balin	It is the custom of my country for a knight to keep his sword ever with him; and if I may not keep it here
	sir balin	I will forthwith depart.
	narrator	Then they gave him leave to wear his sword.
	narrator	So he went to the great hall, and was set among knights of rank and worship, and his lady before him.
	narrator	Soon he found means to ask one who sat near him,
	sir balin	Is there not here a knight whose name is Garlon?
	neighbor	Yonder he goeth, he with that black face; he is the most marvelous knight alive, for he rideth invisibly, and destroyeth whom he will.
	sir balin	Ah, well, is that indeed the man? I have aforetime heard of him.
	narrator	Then he mused long within himself, and thought,
	narrator	If I shall slay him here and now, I shall not escape myself; but if I leave him
	narrator	peradventure I shall never meet with him again at such advantage; and if he live, how much more harm and mischief will he do!
	narrator	But while he deeply thought, and cast his eyes from time to time upon Sir Garlon, that false knight saw that he watched him
	narrator	and thinking that he could at such a time escape revenge, he came and smote Sir Balin on the face with the back of his
	narrator	hand
	narrator	and said,
	sir garlon	Knight, why dost thou so watch me? be ashamed, and eat thy meat, and do that which thou camest for.
	sir balin	Thou sayest well, cried Sir Balin, rising fiercely; now will I straightway do that which I came to do, as thou shalt find.
	narrator	With that he whirled his sword aloft and struck him downright on the head, and clove his skull asunder to the shoulder.
	sir balin	Give me the truncheon, cried out Sir Balin to his lady, wherewith he slew thy knight.
	narrator	And when she gave it him--for she had always carried it about with her, wherever she had gone--he smote him through the body with it
	narrator	and said,
	sir balin	With that truncheon didst thou treacherously murder a good knight, and now it sticketh in thy felon body.
	sir balin	Now take as much blood as thou wilt, to heal thy son withal.
	narrator	But now arose a terrible confusion, and all the knights leaped from the table to slay Balin
	narrator	King Pelles himself the foremost, who cried out,
	king pelles	Knight, thou hast slain my brother at my board; die, therefore, die, for thou shalt never leave this castle.
	sir balin	Slay me, thyself, then,
	king pelles	Yea, said the king, that will I! for no other man shall touch thee, for the love I bear my brother.
	narrator	Then King Pelles caught in his hand a grim weapon and smote eagerly at Balin, but Balin put his sword between his head and the
	narrator	king's stroke
	narrator	and saved himself but lost his sword, which fell down smashed and shivered into pieces by the blow.
	narrator	So being weaponless he ran to the next room to find a sword, and so from room to room
	narrator	with King Pelles after him, he in vain ever eagerly casting his eyes round every place to find some weapon.
	narrator	At last he ran into a chamber wondrous richly decked, where was a bed all dressed with cloth of gold
	narrator	the richest that could be thought of, and one who lay quite still within the bed; and by the bedside stood a table of pure
	narrator	gold
	narrator	borne on four silver pillars, and on the table stood a marvelous spear, strangely wrought.
	narrator	When Sir Balin saw the spear he seized it in his hand, and turned upon King Pelles
	narrator	and smote at him so fiercely and so sore that he dropped swooning to the ground.
	narrator	But at that Dolorous and awful Stroke the castle rocked and rove throughout, and all the walls fell crashed and breaking to the earth
	narrator	and Balin himself fell also in their midst, struck as it were to stone, and powerless to move a hand or foot.
	narrator	And so three days he lay amidst the ruins, until Merlin came and raised him up and brought him a good horse
	narrator	and bade him ride out of that land as swiftly as he could.
	sir balin	May I not take the damsel with me I brought hither?
	merlin	Lo! where she lieth dead,
	narrator	Ah, little knowest thou, Sir Balin, what thou hast done; for in this castle and that chamber which thou didst defile
	narrator	was the blood of our Lord Christ! and also that most holy cup--the Sangreal--wherefrom the wine was drunk at the last supper of our Lord.
	narrator	Joseph of Arimathea brought it to this land, when first he came here to convert and save it.
	narrator	And on that bed of gold it was himself who lay, and the strange spear beside him was the spear wherewith the soldier Longus smote
	narrator	our Lord
	narrator	which evermore had dripped with blood.
	narrator	King Pelles is the nearest kin to Joseph in direct descent, wherefore he held these holy things in trust; but now have they all gone
	narrator	at thy dolorous stroke
	narrator	no man knoweth whither; and great is the damage to this land, which until now hath been the happiest of all lands
	narrator	for by that stroke thou hast slain thousands, and by the loss and parting of the Sangreal
	narrator	the safety of this realm is put in peril, and its great happiness is gone for evermore.
	narrator	Then Balin departed from Merlin, struck to his soul with grief and sorrow, and said,
	sir balin le savage	In this world shall we meet never more.
	narrator	So he rode forth through the fair cities and the country, and found the people lying dead on every side.
	narrator	And all the living cried out on him as he passed, "O Balin, all this misery hast thou done! For the dolorous stroke thou gavest
	narrator	King Pelles
	narrator	three countries are destroyed, and doubt not but revenge will fall on thee at last!"
	narrator	When he had passed the boundary of those countries, he was somewhat comforted, and rode eight days without adventure.
	narrator	Anon he came to a cross, whereon was written in letters of gold, "It is not for a knight alone to ride towards this castle."
	narrator	Looking up
	narrator	he saw a hoary ancient man come towards him, who said,
	narrator	"Sir Balin le Savage, thou passest thy bounds this way; therefore turn back again, it will be best for thee;" and with these words he
	narrator	vanished.
	narrator	Then did he hear a horn blow as it were the death-note of some hunted beast.
	narrator	"That blast," said Balin, "is blown for me, for I am the prey; though yet I be not dead." But as he spoke he saw
	narrator	a hundred ladies with a great troop of knights come forth to meet him with bright faces and great welcome
	narrator	who led him to the castle and made a great feast, with dancing and minstrelsy and all manner of joy.
	narrator	Then the chief lady of the castle said,
	the lady of the castle	Knight with the two swords, thou must encounter and fight with a knight hard by, who dwelleth on an island
	the lady of the castle	for no man may pass this way without encountering him.
	sir balin le savage	It is a grievous custom," answered Sir Balin.
	the lady of the castle	There is but one knight to defeat," replied the lady.
	sir balin le savage	Well," said Sir Balin, "be it as thou wilt. I am ready and quite willing, and though my horse and my body be full weary
	sir balin le savage	yet is my heart not weary, save of life. And truly I were glad if I might meet my death.
	narrator	"Sir," said one standing by, "methinketh your shield is not good; I will lend you a bigger."
	sir balin le savage	I thank thee, sir," said Balin, and took the unknown shield and left his own, and so rode forth
	sir balin le savage	and put himself and horse into a boat and came to the island.
	narrator	As soon as he had landed, he saw come riding towards him, a knight dressed all in red
	narrator	upon a horse trapped in the same color.
	narrator	When the red knight saw Sir Balin, and the two swords he wore, he thought it must have been his brother (for the red knight
	narrator	was Sir Balan)
	narrator	but when he saw the strange arms on his shield, he forgot the thought, and came against him fiercely.
	narrator	At the first course they overthrew each other, and both lay swooning on the ground; but Sir Balin was the most hurt and bruised
	narrator	for he was weary and spent with traveling.
	narrator	So Sir Balan rose up first to his feet and drew his sword, and Sir Balin painfully rose against him and raised his shield.
	narrator	Then Sir Balan smote him through the shield and brake his helmet; and Sir Balin, in return
	narrator	smote at him with his fated sword, and had wellnigh slain his brother.
	narrator	And so they fought till their breaths failed.
	narrator	Then Sir Balin, looking up, saw all the castle towers stand full of ladies.
	narrator	So they went again to battle, and wounded each other full sore, and paused, and breathed again
	narrator	and then again began the fight; and this for many times they did, till all the ground was red with blood.
	narrator	And by now, each had full grievously wounded the other with seven great wounds, the least of which might have destroyed the mightiest giant in
	narrator	the world.
	narrator	But still they rose against each other, although their hauberks now were all unnailed, and they smiting at each other's naked bodies with their sharp
	narrator	swords.
	narrator	At the last, Sir Balan, the younger brother, withdrew a little space and laid him down.
	sir balin le savage	What knight art thou? for never before have I found a knight to match me thus.
	sir balan	My name," said he, all faintly, "is Balan, brother to the good knight Sir Balin.
	sir balin le savage	Ah, God!" cried Balin, "that ever I should see this day!" and therewith fell down backwards in a swoon.
	narrator	Then Sir Balan crept with pain upon his feet and hands, and put his brother's helmet off his head
	narrator	but could not know him by his face, it was so hewed and bloody.
	narrator	But presently, when Sir Balin came to, he said,
	sir balin le savage	Oh! Balan, mine own brother, thou hast slain me, and I thee! All the wide world saw never greater grief!
	sir balan	Alas!" said Sir Balan, "that I ever saw this day; and through mishap alone I knew thee not
	sir balan	for when I saw thy two swords, if it had not been for thy strange shield, I should have known thee for my brother.
	sir balin le savage	Alas!" said Balin, "all this sorrow lieth at the door of one unhappy knight within the castle
	sir balin le savage	who made me change my shield. If I might live, I would destroy that castle and its evil customs.
	sir balan	It were well done," said Balan, "for since I first came hither I have never been able to depart
	sir balan	for here they made me fight with one who kept this island, whom I slew, and by enchantment I might never quit it more; nor
	sir balan	couldst thou
	sir balan	brother, hadst thou slain me, and escaped with thine own life.
	narrator	Anon came the lady of the castle, and when she heard their talk, and saw their evil case
	narrator	she wrung her hands and wept bitterly.
	sir balan	Pray the lady of her gentleness that, for his true service, she would bury them both together in that place.
	narrator	This she granted, weeping full sore, and said it should be done right solemnly and richly, and in the noblest manner possible.
	narrator	Then did they send for a priest, and received the holy sacrament at his hands.
	sir balin	Write over us upon our tomb, that here two brethren slew each other; then shall never good knight or pilgrim pass this way but he
	sir balin	will pray for both our souls.
	narrator	And anon Sir Balan died, but Sir Balin died not till the midnight after; and then they both were buried.
	narrator	On the morrow of their death came Merlin, and took Sir Balin's sword and fixed on it a new pommel
	narrator	and set it in a mighty stone, which then, by magic, he made float upon the water.
	narrator	And so, for many years, it floated to and fro around the island, till it swam down the river to Camelot
	narrator	where young Sir Galahad achieved it, as shall be told hereafter.
