	narrator	Within a while thereafter was a jousting at the court, wherein Sir Lancelot won the prize.
	narrator	And two of those he smote down were Sir Agravaine, the brother of Sir Gawain, and Sir Modred
	narrator	his false brother--King Arthur's son by Belisent.
	narrator	And because of his victory they hated Sir Lancelot, and sought how they might injure him.
	narrator	So on a night, when King Arthur was hunting in the forest, and the queen sent for Sir Lancelot to her chamber
	narrator	they two espied him; and thinking now to make a scandal and a quarrel between Lancelot and the king
	narrator	they found twelve others, and said Sir Lancelot was ever now in the queen's chamber, and King Arthur was dishonored.
	narrator	Then, all armed, they came suddenly round the queen's door, and cried,
	narrator	"Traitor! now art thou taken."
	sir lancelot	Madam, we be betrayed,
	sir lancelot	yet shall my life cost these men dear.
	narrator	Then did the queen weep sore, and dismally she cried,
	narrator	"Alas! there is no armor here whereby ye might withstand so many; wherefore ye will be slain
	narrator	and I be burnt for the dread crime they will charge on me."
	narrator	But while she spake the shouting of the knights was heard without,
	narrator	"Traitor, come forth, for now thou art snared!"
	sir lancelot	Better were twenty deaths at once than this vile outcry,
	sir lancelot	Then he kissed her and said,
	sir lancelot	Most noble lady, I beseech ye, as I have ever been your own true knight, take courage; pray for my soul if I be now
	sir lancelot	slain
	sir lancelot	and trust my faithful friends, Sir Bors and Sir Lavaine, to save you from the fire.
	narrator	But ever bitterly she wept and moaned, and cried,
	narrator	"Would God that they would take and slay me, and that thou couldest escape."
	sir lancelot	That shall never be,
	narrator	And wrapping his mantle round his arm he unbarred the door a little space, so that but one could enter.
	narrator	Then first rushed in Sir Chalaunce, a full strong knight, and lifted up his sword to smite Sir Lancelot; but lightly he avoided him
	narrator	and struck Sir Chalaunce, with his hand, such a sore buffet on the head as felled him dead upon the floor.
	narrator	Then Sir Lancelot pulled in his body and barred the door again, and dressed himself in his armor
	narrator	and took his drawn sword in his hand.
	narrator	But still the knights cried mightily without the door,
	narrator	"Traitor, come forth!"
	sir lancelot	Be silent and depart,
	sir lancelot	for be ye sure ye will not take me, and to-morrow will I meet ye face to face before the king.
	narrator	"Ye shall have no such grace," they cried; "but we will slay thee, or take thee as we list."
	sir lancelot	Then save yourselves who may,
	narrator	he thundered, and therewith suddenly unbarred the door and rushed forth at them.
	narrator	And at the first blow he slew Sir Agravaine, and after him twelve other knights, with twelve more mighty buffets.
	narrator	And none of all escaped him save Sir Modred, who, sorely wounded, flew away for life.
	narrator	Then returned he to the queen, and said,
	sir lancelot	Now, madam, will I depart, and if ye be in any danger I pray ye come to me.
	narrator	"Surely will I stay here, for I am queen," she answered; "yet if to-morrow any harm come to me I trust to thee for rescue."
	sir lancelot	Have ye no doubt of me,
	sir lancelot	for ever while I live am I your own true knight.
	narrator	Therewith he took his leave, and went and told Sir Bors and all his kindred of this adventure.
	narrator	"We will be with thee in this quarrel," said they all; "and if the queen be sentenced to the fire
	narrator	we certainly will save her."
	narrator	Meanwhile Sir Modred, in great fear and pain, fled from the court, and rode until he found King Arthur
	narrator	and told him all that had befallen.
	narrator	But the king would scarce believe him till he came and saw the bodies of Sir Agravaine and all the other knights.
	narrator	Then felt he in himself that all was true, and with his passing grief his heart nigh broke.
	narrator	"Alas!" cried he, "now is the fellowship of the Round Table forever broken: yea, woe is me! I may not with my honor spare my
	narrator	queen."
	narrator	Anon it was ordained that Queen Guinevere should be burned to death, because she had dishonored King Arthur.
	narrator	But when Sir Gawain heard thereof, he came before the king, and said,
	sir gawain	My lord, I counsel thee be not too hasty in this matter, but stay the judgment of the queen a season
	sir gawain	for it may well be that Sir Lancelot was in her chamber for no evil, seeing she is greatly beholden to him for so many
	sir gawain	deeds done for her sake
	sir gawain	and peradventure she had sent to him to thank him, and did it secretly that she might avoid slander.
	king arthur	Alas! I may not help her; she is judged as any other woman.
	narrator	Then he required Sir Gawain and his brethren, Sir Gaheris and Sir Gareth, to be ready to bear the queen to-morrow to the place of
	narrator	execution.
	sir gawain	Nay, noble lord," replied Sir Gawain, "that can I never do; for neither will my heart suffer me to see the queen die
	sir gawain	nor shall men ever say I was of your counsel in this matter.
	narrator	Then said his brother,
	narrator	"Ye may command us to be there, but since it is against our will, we will be without arms
	narrator	that we may do no battle against her."
	narrator	So on the morrow was Queen Guinevere led forth to die by fire, and a mighty crowd was there
	narrator	of knights and nobles, armed and unarmed.
	narrator	And all the lords and ladies wept sore at that piteous sight.
	narrator	Then was she shriven by a priest, and the men came nigh to bind her to the stake and light the fire.
	narrator	At that Sir Lancelot's spies rode hastily and told him and his kindred, who lay hidden in a wood hard by; and suddenly
	narrator	with twenty knights, he rushed into the midst of all the throng to rescue her.
	narrator	But certain of King Arthur's knights rose up and fought with them, and there was a full great battle and confusion.
	narrator	And Sir Lancelot drave fiercely here and there among the press, and smote on every side, and at every blow struck down a knight
	narrator	so that many were slain by him and his fellows.
	narrator	Then was the queen set free, and caught up on Sir Lancelot's saddle and fled away with him and all his company to the Castle
	narrator	of La Joyous Garde.
	narrator	Now so it chanced that, in the turmoil of the fighting, Sir Lancelot had unawares struck down and slain the two good knights Sir Gareth
	narrator	and Sir Gaheris
	narrator	knowing it not, for he fought wildly, and saw not that they were unarmed.
	narrator	When King Arthur heard thereof, and of all that battle, and the rescue of the queen, he sorrowed heavily for those good knights
	narrator	and was passing wroth with Lancelot and the queen.
	narrator	But when Sir Gawain heard of his brethren's death he swooned for sorrow and wrath, for he wist that Sir Lancelot had killed them in
	narrator	malice.
	narrator	And as soon as he recovered he ran in to the king, and said,
	sir gawain	Lord king and uncle, hear this oath which now I swear, that from this day I will not fail Sir Lancelot till one of us
	sir gawain	hath slain the other. And now
	sir gawain	unless ye haste to war with him, that we may be avenged, will I myself alone go after him.
	narrator	Then the king, full of wrath and grief, agreed thereto, and sent letters throughout the realm to summon all his knights
	narrator	and went with a vast army to besiege the Castle of La Joyous Garde.
	narrator	And Sir Lancelot, with his knights, mightily defended it; but never would he suffer any to go forth and attack one of the king's army
	narrator	for he was right loth to fight against him.
	narrator	So when fifteen weeks were passed, and King Arthur's army wasted itself in vain against the castle
	narrator	for it was passing strong, it chanced upon a day Sir Lancelot was looking from the walls and espied King Arthur and Sir Gawain close
	narrator	beside.
	king arthur	Come forth, Sir Lancelot, and let us two meet in the midst of the field.
	sir lancelot	God forbid that I should encounter with thee, lord, for thou didst make me a knight.
	sir gawain	Shame on thee, traitor and false knight, yet be ye well assured we will regain the queen and slay thee and thy company; yea
	sir gawain	double shame on ye to slay my brother Gaheris unarmed, Sir Gareth also, who loved ye so well. For that treachery
	sir gawain	be sure I am thine enemy till death.
	sir lancelot	Alas! that I hear such tidings, for I knew not I had slain those noble knights, and right sorely now do I repent it with
	sir lancelot	a heavy heart. Yet abate thy wrath
	sir lancelot	Sir Gawain, for ye know full well I did it by mischance, for I loved them ever as my own brothers.
	sir gawain	Thou liest, false recreant.
	sir lancelot	I well see thou art now mine enemy, and that there can be no more peace with thee
	sir lancelot	or with my lord the king, else would I gladly give back the queen.
	narrator	Then the king would fain have listened to Sir Lancelot, for more than all his own wrong did he grieve at the sore waste and
	narrator	damage of the realm
	narrator	but Sir Gawain persuaded him against it, and ever cried out foully on Sir Lancelot.
	narrator	When Sir Bors and the other knights of Lancelot's party heard the fierce words of Sir Gawain
	narrator	they were passing wroth, and prayed to ride forth and be avenged on him, for they were weary of so long waiting to no good.
	narrator	And in the end Sir Lancelot, with a heavy heart, consented.
	narrator	So on the morrow the hosts on either side met in the field, and there was a great battle.
	narrator	And Sir Gawain prayed his knights chiefly to set upon Sir Lancelot; but Sir Lancelot commanded his company to forbear King Arthur and Sir Gawain.
	narrator	So the two armies jousted together right fiercely, and Sir Gawain proffered to encounter with Sir Lionel
	narrator	and overthrew him.
	narrator	But Sir Bors and Sir Blamor, and Sir Palomedes, who were on Sir Lancelot's side, did great feats of arms
	narrator	and overthrew many of King Arthur's knights.
	narrator	Then the king came forth against Sir Lancelot, but Sir Lancelot forbore him and would not strike again.
	narrator	At that Sir Bors rode up against the king and smote him down.
	narrator	But Sir Lancelot cried,
	sir lancelot	Touch him not on pain of thy head,
	narrator	and going to King Arthur he alighted and gave him his own horse, saying,
	sir lancelot	My lord, I pray thee forbear this strife, for it can bring to neither of us any honor.
	narrator	And when King Arthur looked on him the tears came to his eyes as he thought of his noble courtesy
	narrator	and he said within himself,
	narrator	Alas! that ever this war began.
	narrator	But on the morrow Sir Gawain led forth the army again, and Sir Bors commanded on Sir Lancelot's side.
	narrator	And they two struck together so fiercely that both fell to the ground sorely wounded; and all the day they fought till night fell
	narrator	and many were slain on both sides, yet in the end neither gained the victory.
	narrator	But by now the fame of this fierce war spread through all Christendom, and when the Pope heard thereof he sent a Bull
	narrator	and charged King Arthur to make peace with Lancelot, and receive back Queen Guinevere; and for the offense imputed to her absolution should be given
	narrator	by the Pope.
	narrator	Thereto would King Arthur straightway have obeyed, but Sir Gawain ever urged him to refuse.
	narrator	When Sir Lancelot heard thereof, he wrote thus to the king:
	sir lancelot	It was never in my thought, lord, to withhold thy queen from thee; but since she was condemned for my sake to death
	sir lancelot	I deemed it but a just and knightly part to rescue her therefrom; wherefore I recommend me to your grace
	sir lancelot	and within eight days will I come to thee and bring the queen in safety.
	narrator	Then, within eight days, as he had said, Sir Lancelot rode from out the castle with Queen Guinevere
	narrator	and a hundred knights for company, each carrying an olive branch, in sign of peace.
	narrator	And so they came to the court, and found King Arthur sitting on his throne, with Sir Gawain and many other knights around him.
	narrator	And when Sir Lancelot entered with the queen, they both kneeled down before the king.
	sir lancelot	My lord, I have brought hither my lady the queen again, as right requireth, and by commandment of the Pope and you. I pray ye
	sir lancelot	take her to your heart again and forget the past. For myself I may ask nothing
	sir lancelot	and for my sin I shall have sorrow and sore punishment; yet I would to heaven I might have your grace.
	narrator	But ere the king could answer, for he was moved with pity at his words,
	sir gawain	Let the king do as he will, but be sure, Sir Lancelot, thou and I shall never be accorded while we live
	sir gawain	for thou has slain my brethren traitorously and unarmed.
	sir lancelot	As heaven is my help, I did it ignorantly, for I loved them well, and while I live I shall bewail their death; but to
	sir lancelot	make war with me were no avail
	sir lancelot	for I must needs fight with thee if thou assailest, and peradventure I might kill thee also
	sir lancelot	which I were right loath to do.
	sir gawain	I will forgive thee never, and if the king accordeth with thee he shall lose my service.
	narrator	Then the knights who stood near tried to reconcile Sir Gawain to Sir Lancelot, but he would not hear them.
	sir lancelot	Since peace is vain, I will depart, lest I bring more evil on my fellowship.
	narrator	And as he turned to go, the tears fell from him, and he said,
	sir lancelot	Alas, most noble Christian realm, which I have loved above all others, now shall I see thee never more!
	sir lancelot	Madam, now must I leave ye and this noble fellowship forever. And, I beseech ye, pray for me
	sir lancelot	and if ye ever be defamed of any, let me hear thereof, and as I have been ever thy true knight in right and wrong
	sir lancelot	so will I be again.
	narrator	With that he kneeled and kissed King Arthur's hands, and departed on his way.
	narrator	And there was none in all that court, save Sir Gawain alone, but wept to see him go.
	narrator	So he returned with all his knights to the Castle of La Joyous Garde, and, for his sorrow's sake
	narrator	he named it Dolorous Garde thenceforth.
	narrator	Anon he left the realm, and went with many of his fellowship beyond the sea to France
	narrator	and there divided all his lands among them equally, he sharing but as the rest.
	narrator	And from that time forward peace had been between him and King Arthur, but for Sir Gawain
	narrator	who left the king no rest, but constantly persuaded him that Lancelot was raising mighty hosts against him.
	narrator	So in the end his malice overcame the king, who left the government in charge of Modred
	narrator	and made him guardian of the queen, and went with a great army to invade Sir Lancelot's lands.
	narrator	Yet Sir Lancelot would make no war upon the king, and sent a message to gain peace on any terms King Arthur chose.
	narrator	But Sir Gawain met the herald ere he reached the king, and sent him back with taunting and bitter words.
	narrator	Whereat Sir Lancelot sorrowfully called his knights together and fortified the Castle of Benwicke, and there was shortly besieged by the army of King Arthur.
	narrator	And every day Sir Gawain rode up to the walls, and cried out foully on Sir Lancelot
	narrator	till, upon a time, Sir Lancelot answered him that he would meet him in the field and put his boasting to the proof.
	narrator	So it was agreed on both sides that there should none come nigh them or separate them till one had fallen or yielded; and they
	narrator	two rode forth.
	narrator	Then did they wheel their horses apart, and turning, came together as it had been thunder, so that both horses fell
	narrator	and both their lances broke.
	narrator	At that they drew their swords and set upon each other fiercely, with passing grievous strokes.
	narrator	Now Sir Gawain had through magic a marvelous great gift.
	narrator	For every day, from morning till noon, his strength waxed to the might of seven men, but after that waned to his natural force.
	narrator	Therefore till noon he gave Sir Lancelot many mighty buffets, which scarcely he endured.
	narrator	Yet greatly he forbore Sir Gawain, for he was aware of his enchantment, and smote him slightly till his own knights marveled.
	narrator	But after noon Sir Gawain's strength sank fast, and then, with one full blow, Sir Lancelot laid him on the earth.
	narrator	Then Sir Gawain cried out,
	sir gawain	Turn not away, thou traitor knight, but slay me if thou wilt, or else I will arise and fight with thee again some other time.
	sir lancelot	Sir knight, I never yet smote a fallen man.
	narrator	At that they bore Sir Gawain sorely wounded to his tent, and King Arthur withdrew his men
	narrator	for he was loth to shed the blood of so many knights of his own fellowship.
	narrator	But now came tidings to King Arthur from across the sea, which caused him to return in haste.
	narrator	For thus the news ran, that no sooner was Sir Modred set up in his regency, than he had forged false tidings from abroad that
	narrator	the king had fallen in a battle with Sir Lancelot.
	narrator	Whereat he had proclaimed himself the king, and had been crowned at Canterbury, where he had held a coronation feast for fifteen days.
	narrator	Then he had gone to Winchester, where Queen Guinevere abode, and had commanded her to be his wife; whereto
	narrator	for fear and sore perplexity, she had feigned consent, but, under pretext of preparing for the marriage
	narrator	had fled in haste to London and taken shelter in the Tower, fortifying it and providing it with all manner of victuals
	narrator	and defending it against Sir Modred, and answering to all his threats that she would rather slay herself than be his queen.
	narrator	Thus was it written to King Arthur.
	narrator	Then, in passing great wrath and haste, he came with all his army swiftly back from France and sailed to England.
	narrator	But when Sir Modred heard thereof, he left the Tower and marched with all his host to meet the king at Dover.
	narrator	Then fled Queen Guinevere to Amesbury to a nunnery, and there she clothed herself in sackcloth, and spent her time in praying for the king
	narrator	and in good deeds and fasting.
	narrator	And in that nunnery evermore she lived, sorely repenting and mourning for her sin, and for the ruin she had brought on all the realm.
	narrator	And there anon she died.
	narrator	And when Sir Lancelot heard thereof, he put his knightly armor off, and bade farewell to all his kin
	narrator	and went a mighty pilgrimage for many years, and after lived a hermit till his death.
	narrator	When Sir Modred came to Dover, he found King Arthur and his army but just landed; and there they fought a fierce and bloody battle
	narrator	and many great and noble knights fell on both sides.
	narrator	But the king's side had the victory, for he was beyond himself with might and passion, and all his knights so fiercely followed him
	narrator	that, in spite of all their multitude, they drove Sir Modred's army back with fearful wounds and slaughter
	narrator	and slept that night upon the battle-field.
	narrator	But Sir Gawain was smitten by an arrow in the wound Sir Lancelot gave him, and wounded to the death.
	narrator	Then was he borne to the king's tent, and King Arthur sorrowed over him as it had been his own son.
	king arthur	Alas! in Sir Lancelot and in you I had my greatest earthly joy, and now is all gone from me.
	narrator	And Sir Gawain answered, with a feeble voice,
	sir gawain	My lord and king, I know well my death is come, and through my own wilfulness, for I am smitten in the wound Sir Lancelot
	sir gawain	gave me. Alas! that I have been the cause of all this war
	sir gawain	for but for me thou hadst been now at peace with Lancelot, and then had Modred never done this treason. I pray ye
	sir gawain	therefore, my dear lord, be now agreed with Lancelot, and tell him, that although he gave me my death-wound
	sir gawain	it was through my own seeking; wherefore I beseech him to come back to England, and here to visit my tomb
	sir gawain	and pray for my soul.
	narrator	When he had thus spoken, Sir Gawain gave up his ghost, and the king grievously mourned for him.
	narrator	Then they told him that the enemy had camped on Barham Downs, whereat, with all his hosts
	narrator	he straightway marched there, and fought again a bloody battle, and overthrew Sir Modred utterly.
	narrator	Howbeit, he raised yet another army, and retreating ever from before the king, increased his numbers as he went
	narrator	till at the farthest west in Lyonesse, he once more made a stand.
	narrator	Now, on the night of Trinity Sunday, being the eve of the battle, King Arthur had a vision
	narrator	and saw Sir Gawain in a dream, who warned him not to fight with Modred on the morrow
	narrator	else he would be surely slain; and prayed him to delay till Lancelot and his knights should come to aid him.
	narrator	So when King Arthur woke he told his lords and knights that vision, and all agreed to wait the coming of Sir Lancelot.
	narrator	Then a herald was sent with a message of truce to Sir Modred, and a treaty was made that neither army should assail the other.
	narrator	But when the treaty was agreed upon, and the heralds returned, King Arthur said to his knights
	king arthur	Beware, lest Sir Modred deceive us, for I in no wise trust him, and if swords be drawn be ready to encounter!
	narrator	And Sir Modred likewise gave an order, that if any man of the king's army drew his sword
	narrator	they should begin to fight.
	narrator	And as it chanced, a knight of the king's side was bitten by an adder in the foot
	narrator	and hastily drew forth his sword to slay it.
	narrator	That saw Sir Modred, and forthwith commanded all his army to assail the king's.
	narrator	So both sides rushed to battle, and fought passing fiercely.
	narrator	And when the king saw there was no hope to stay them, he did right mightily and nobly as a king should do
	narrator	and ever, like a lion, raged in the thickest of the press, and slew on the right hand and on the left
	narrator	till his horse went fetlock deep in blood.
	narrator	So all day long they fought, and stinted not till many a noble knight was slain.
	narrator	But the king was passing sorrowful to see his trusty knights lie dead on every side.
	narrator	And at the last but two remained beside him, Sir Lucan, and his brother, Sir Bedivere, and both were sorely wounded.
	king arthur	Now am I come to mine end; but, lo! that traitor Modred liveth yet, and I may not die till I have slain him. Now
	king arthur	give me my spear, Sir Lucan.
	sir lucan	Lord, let him be; for if ye pass through this unhappy day, ye shall be right well revenged upon him. My good lord
	sir lucan	remember well your dream, and what the spirit of Sir Gawain did fore-warn ye.
	king arthur	Betide me life, betide me death; now I see him yonder alone, he shall never escape my hands
	king arthur	for at a better vantage shall I never have him.
	sir bedivere	God speed you well.
	narrator	Then King Arthur got his spear in both his hands, and ran towards Sir Modred, crying,
	king arthur	Traitor, now is thy death-day come!
	narrator	And when Sir Modred heard his words, and saw him come, he drew his sword and stood to meet him.
	narrator	Then King Arthur smote Sir Modred through the body more than a fathom.
	narrator	And when Sir Modred felt he had his death wound, he thrust himself with all his might up to the end of King Arthur's spear
	narrator	and smote his father, Arthur, with his sword upon the head, so that it pierced both helm and brain-pan.
	narrator	And therewith Sir Modred fell down stark dead to the earth, and King Arthur fell down also in a swoon
	narrator	and swooned many times.
	narrator	Then Sir Lucan and Sir Bedivere came and bare him away to a little chapel by the sea-shore.
	narrator	And there Sir Lucan sank down with the bleeding of his own wounds, and fell dead.
	narrator	And King Arthur lay long in a swoon, and when he came to himself, he found Sir Lucan lying dead beside him
	narrator	and Sir Bedivere weeping over the body of his brother.
	king arthur	Weeping will avail no longer, else would I grieve forevermore. Alas! now is the fellowship of the Round Table dissolved forever
	king arthur	and all my realm I have so loved is wasted with war. But my time hieth fast
	king arthur	wherefore take thou Excalibur, my good sword, and go therewith to yonder water-side and throw it in
	king arthur	and bring me word what thing thou seest.
	narrator	So Sir Bedivere departed; but as he went he looked upon the sword, the hilt whereof was all inlaid with precious stones exceeding rich.
	narrator	And presently he said within himself,
	narrator	If I now throw this sword into the water, what good should come of it?
	narrator	So he hid the sword among the reeds, and came again to the king.
	king arthur	What sawest thou?
	sir bedivere	Lord, I saw nothing else but wind and waves.
	king arthur	Thou hast untruly spoken; wherefore go lightly back and throw it in, and spare not.
	narrator	Then Sir Bedivere returned again, and took the sword up in his hand; but when he looked on it
	narrator	he thought it sin and shame to throw away a thing so noble.
	narrator	Wherefore he hid it yet again, and went back to the king.
	king arthur	What saw ye?
	sir bedivere	Lord, I saw nothing but the water ebbing and flowing.
	king arthur	Oh, traitor and untrue! Twice hast thou now betrayed me. Art thou called of men a noble knight
	king arthur	and wouldest betray me for a jewelled sword? Now, therefore, go again for the last time, for thy tarrying hath put me in sore peril
	king arthur	of my life
	king arthur	and I fear my wound hath taken cold; and if thou do it not this time, by my faith I will arise and slay thee
	king arthur	with my hands.
	narrator	Then Sir Bedivere ran quickly and took up the sword, and went down to the water's edge
	narrator	and bound the girdle round the hilt and threw it far into the water.
	narrator	And lo! an arm and hand came forth above the water, and caught the sword, and brandished it three times
	narrator	and vanished.
	narrator	So Sir Bedivere came again to the king and told him what he had seen.
	king arthur	Help me from hence; for I dread me I have tarried over long.
	narrator	Then Sir Bedivere took the king up in his arms, and bore him to the water's edge.
	narrator	And by the shore they saw a barge with three fair queens therein, all dressed in black
	narrator	and when they saw King Arthur they wept and wailed.
	king arthur	Now put me in the barge,
	sir bedivere	and tenderly he did so.
	narrator	Then the three queens received him, and he laid his head upon the lap of one of them
	narrator	who cried,
	queen guinevere	Alas! dear brother, why have ye tarried so long, for your wound hath taken cold?
	narrator	With that the barge put from the land, and when Sir Bedivere saw it departing, he cried with a bitter cry
	sir bedivere	Alas! my lord King Arthur, what shall become of me now ye have gone from me?
	king arthur	Comfort ye,
	king arthur	and be strong, for I may no more help ye. I go to the Vale of Avilion to heal me of my grievous wound
	king arthur	and if ye see me no more, pray for my soul.
	narrator	Then the three queens kneeled down around the king and sorely wept and wailed, and the barge went forth to sea
	narrator	and departed slowly out of Sir Bedivere's sight.
	narrator	THE END
