	narrator	King Vortigern the usurper sat upon his throne in London, when, suddenly, upon a certain day, ran in a breathless messenger
	narrator	and cried aloud
	messenger	Arise, Lord King, for the enemy is come; even Ambrosius and Uther, upon whose throne thou sittest--and full twenty thousand with them--and they have sworn
	messenger	by a great oath
	messenger	Lord, to slay thee, ere this year be done; and even now they march towards thee as the north wind of winter for bitterness and
	messenger	haste.
	narrator	At those words Vortigern's face grew white as ashes, and, rising in confusion and disorder, he sent for all the best artificers and craftsmen and
	narrator	mechanics
	narrator	and commanded them vehemently to go and build him straightway in the furthest west of his lands a great and strong castle
	narrator	where he might fly for refuge and escape the vengeance of his master's sons--"and, moreover," cried he
	narrator	"let the work be done within a hundred days from now, or I will surely spare no life amongst you all."
	narrator	Then all the host of craftsmen, fearing for their lives, found out a proper site whereon to build the tower
	narrator	and eagerly began to lay in the foundations.
	narrator	But no sooner were the walls raised up above the ground than all their work was overwhelmed and broken down by night invisibly
	narrator	no man perceiving how, or by whom, or what.
	narrator	And the same thing happening again, and yet again, all the workmen, full of terror, sought out the king
	narrator	and threw themselves upon their faces before him, beseeching him to interfere and help them or to deliver them from their dreadful work.
	narrator	Filled with mixed rage and fear, the king called for the astrologers and wizards, and took counsel with them what these things might be
	narrator	and how to overcome them.
	narrator	The wizards worked their spells and incantations, and in the end declared that nothing but the blood of a youth born without mortal father
	narrator	smeared on the foundations of the castle, could avail to make it stand.
	narrator	Messengers were therefore sent forthwith through all the land to find, if it were possible, such a child.
	narrator	And, as some of them went down a certain village street, they saw a band of lads fighting and quarreling
	narrator	and heard them shout at one--"Avaunt, thou imp!--avaunt! Son of no mortal man! go, find thy father
	narrator	and leave us in peace."
	narrator	At that the messengers looked steadfastly on the lad, and asked who he was.
	narrator	One said his name was Merlin; another, that his birth and parentage were known by no man; a third
	narrator	that the foul fiend alone was his father.
	narrator	Hearing the things, the officers seized Merlin, and carried him before the king by force.
	narrator	But no sooner was he brought to him than he asked in a loud voice, for what cause he was thus dragged there?
	vortigern	My magicians, told me to seek out a man that had no human father, and to sprinkle my castle with his blood
	vortigern	that it may stand.
	merlin	Order those magicians, to come before me, and I will convict them of a lie.
	narrator	The king was astonished at his words, but commanded the magicians to come and sit down before Merlin
	narrator	who cried to them
	merlin	Because ye know not what it is that hinders the foundation of the castle, ye have advised my blood for a cement to it
	merlin	as if that would avail; but tell me now rather what there is below that ground, for something there is surely underneath that will not
	merlin	suffer the tower to stand?
	narrator	The wizards at these words began to fear, and made no answer.
	narrator	Then said Merlin to the king
	merlin	I pray, Lord, that workmen may be ordered to dig deep down into the ground till they shall come to a great pool of water.
	narrator	This then was done, and the pool discovered far beneath the surface of the ground.
	merlin	Tell me now, false sycophants, what there is underneath that pool?
	narrator	but they were silent.
	narrator	Then said he to the king, "Command this pool to be drained, and at the bottom shall be found two dragons
	narrator	great and huge, which now are sleeping, but which at night awake and fight and tear each other. At their great struggle all the ground
	narrator	shakes and trembles
	narrator	and so casts down thy towers, which, therefore, never yet could find secure foundations."
	narrator	The king was amazed at these words, but commanded the pool to be forthwith drained; and surely at the bottom of it did they presently
	narrator	discover the two dragons
	narrator	fast asleep, as Merlin had declared.
	narrator	But Vortigern sat upon the brink of the pool till night to see what else would happen.
	narrator	Then those two dragons, one of which was white, the other red, rose up and came near one another
	narrator	and began a sore fight, and cast forth fire with their breath.
	narrator	But the white dragon had the advantage, and chased the other to the end of the lake.
	narrator	And he, for grief at his flight, turned back upon his foe, and renewed the combat, and forced him to retire in turn.
	narrator	But in the end the red dragon was worsted, and the white dragon disappeared no man knew where.
	narrator	When their battle was done, the king desired Merlin to tell him what it meant.
	narrator	Whereat he, bursting into tears, cried out this prophecy, which first foretold the coming of King Arthur.
	merlin	Woe to the red dragon, which figureth the British nation, for his banishment cometh quickly; his lurking-holes shall be seized by the white dragon--the Saxon
	merlin	whom thou
	merlin	O king, hast called to the land. The mountains shall be leveled as the valleys, and the rivers of the valleys shall run blood; cities
	merlin	shall be burned
	merlin	and churches laid in ruins; till at length the oppressed shall turn for a season and prevail against the strangers. For a Boar of Cornwall
	merlin	shall arise and rend them
	merlin	and trample their necks beneath his feet. The island shall be subject to his power, and he shall take the forests of Gaul. The house
	merlin	of Romulus shall dread him--all the world shall fear him--and his end shall no man know; he shall be immortal in the mouths of the
	merlin	people
	merlin	and his works shall be food to those that tell them.
	narrator	But as for thee, O Vortigern, flee thou the sons of Constantine, for they shall burn thee in thy tower.
	narrator	For thine own ruin wast thou traitor to their father, and didst bring the Saxon heathens to the land.
	narrator	Aurelius and Uther are even now upon thee to revenge their father's murder; and the brood of the white dragon shall waste thy country
	narrator	and shall lick thy blood.
	narrator	Find out some refuge, if thou wilt! but who may escape the doom of God?
	narrator	The king heard all this, trembling greatly; and, convicted of his sins, said nothing in reply.
	narrator	Only he hasted the builders of his tower by day and night, and rested not till he had fled thereto.
	narrator	In the meantime, Aurelius, the rightful king, was hailed with joy by the Britons, who flocked to his standard
	narrator	and prayed to be led against the Saxons.
	narrator	But he, till he had first killed Vortigern, would begin no other war.
	narrator	He marched therefore to Cambria, and came before the tower which the usurper had built.
	aurelius	Avenge ye on him who hath ruined Britain and slain my father and your king!
	narrator	he rushed with many thousands at the castle walls.
	narrator	But, being driven back again and yet again, at length he thought of fire, and ordered blazing brands to be cast into the building from
	narrator	all sides.
	narrator	These, finding soon a proper fuel, ceased not to rage till, spreading to a mighty conflagration, they burned down the tower
	narrator	and Vortigern within it.
	narrator	Then did Aurelius turn his strength against Hengist and the Saxons, and, defeating them in many places
	narrator	weakened their power for a long season, so that the land had peace.
	narrator	Anon the king, making journeys to and fro, restoring ruined churches and, creating order, came to the monastery near Salisbury
	narrator	where all those British knights lay buried who had been slain there by the treachery of Hengist.
	narrator	For when in former times Hengist had made a solemn truce with Vortigern, to meet in peace and settle terms
	narrator	whereby himself and all his Saxons should depart from Britain, the Saxon soldiers carried every one of them beneath his garment a long dagger
	narrator	and, at a given signal, fell upon the Britons, and slew them, to the number of nearly five hundred.
	narrator	The sight of the place where the dead lay moved Aurelius to great sorrow, and he cast about in his mind how to make a
	narrator	worthy tomb over so many noble martyrs
	narrator	who had died there for their country.
	narrator	When he had in vain consulted many craftsmen and builders, he sent, by the advice of the archbishop
	narrator	for Merlin, and asked him what to do.
	merlin	If you would honor the burying-place of these men, with an everlasting monument, send for the Giants' Dance which is in Killaraus
	merlin	a mountain; in Ireland; for there is a structure of stone there which none of this age could raise without a perfect knowledge of the
	merlin	arts. They are stones of a vast size and wondrous nature
	merlin	and if they can be placed here as they are there, round this spot of ground, they will stand for ever.
	aurelius	How is it possible to remove such vast stones from so great a distance, as if Britain, also, had no stones fit for the work?
	merlin	I pray the king, to forbear vain laughter; what I have said is true, for those stones are mystical and have healing virtues. The giants
	merlin	of old brought them from the furthest coast of Africa
	merlin	and placed them in Ireland while they lived in that country: and their design was to make baths in them
	merlin	for use in time of grievous illness. For if they washed the stones and put the sick into the water
	merlin	it certainly healed them, as also it did them that were wounded in battle; and there is no stone among them but hath the same
	merlin	virtue still.
	narrator	When the Britons heard this, they resolved to send for the stones, and to make war upon the people of Ireland if they offered to
	narrator	withhold them.
	narrator	So, when they had chosen Uther the king's brother for their chief, they set sail, to the number of 15,000 men
	narrator	and came to Ireland.
	narrator	There Gillomanius, the king, withstood them fiercely, and not till after a great battle could they approach the Giants' Dance
	narrator	the sight of which filled them with joy and admiration.
	narrator	But when they sought to move the stones, the strength of all the army was in vain
	narrator	until Merlin, laughing at their failures, contrived machines of wondrous cunning, which took them down with ease
	narrator	and placed them in the ships.
	narrator	When they had brought the whole to Salisbury, Aurelius, with the crown upon his head, kept for four days the feast of Pentecost with royal
	narrator	pomp; and in the midst of all the clergy and the people
	narrator	Merlin raised up the stones, and set them round the sepulcher of the knights and barons, as they stood in the mountains of Ireland.
	narrator	Then was the monument called "Stonehenge," and stands, as all men know, upon the plain of Salisbury to this very day.
	narrator	Soon thereafter it befell that Aurelius was slain by poison at Winchester, and was himself buried within the Giants' Dance.
	narrator	At the same time came forth a comet of amazing size and brightness, darting out a beam
	narrator	at the end whereof was a cloud of fire shaped like a dragon, from whose mouth went out two rays
	narrator	one stretching over Gaul, the other ending in seven lesser rays over the Irish sea.
	narrator	At the appearance of this star a great dread fell upon the people, and Uther, marching into Cambria against the son of Vortigern
	narrator	himself was very troubled to learn what it might mean.
	merlin	O mighty loss! O stricken Britain! Alas! the great prince is gone from us. Aurelius Ambrosius is dead
	merlin	whose death will be ours also, unless God help us. Haste, therefore, noble Uther, to destroy the enemy; the victory shall be thine
	merlin	and thou shalt be king of all Britain. For the star with the fiery dragon signifies thyself; and the ray over Gaul portends that thou
	merlin	shalt have a son
	merlin	most mighty, whom all those kingdoms shall obey which the ray covers.
	narrator	Thus, for the second time, did Merlin foretell the coming of King Arthur.
	narrator	And Uther, when he was made king, remembered Merlin's words, and caused two dragons to be made in gold
	narrator	in likeness of the dragon he had seen in the star.
	narrator	One of these he gave to Winchester Cathedral, and had the other carried into all his wars before him
	narrator	whence he was ever after called Uther Pendragon, or the dragon's head.
	narrator	Now, when Uther Pendragon had passed through all the land, and settled it--and even voyaged into all the countries of the Scots
	narrator	and tamed the fierceness of that rebel people--he came to London, and ministered justice there.
	narrator	And it befell at a certain great banquet and high feast which the king made at Easter-tide
	narrator	there came, with many other earls and barons, Gorlois, Duke of Cornwall, and his wife Igerna, who was the most famous beauty in all Britain.
	narrator	And soon thereafter, Gorlois being slain in battle, Uther determined to make Igerna his own wife.
	narrator	But in order to do this, and enable him to come to her--for she was shut up in the high castle of Tintagil
	narrator	on the furthest coast of Cornwall--the king sent for Merlin, to take counsel with him and to pray his help.
	narrator	This, therefore, Merlin promised him on one condition--namely, that the king should give him up the first son born of the marriage.
	narrator	For Merlin by his art foreknew that this firstborn should be the long-wished prince, King Arthur.
	narrator	When Uther, therefore, was at length happily wedded, Merlin came to the castle on a certain day
	narrator	and said, "Sir, thou must now provide thee for the nourishing of thy child."
	uther	Be it as thou wilt.
	merlin	I know a lord of thine in this land, who is a man both true and faithful; let him have the nourishing of the child.
	merlin	His name is Sir Ector
	merlin	and he hath fair possessions both in England and in Wales. When, therefore, the child is born
	merlin	let him be delivered unto me, unchristened, at yonder postern-gate, and I will bestow him in the care of this good knight.
	narrator	So when the child was born, the king bid two knights and two ladies to take it
	narrator	bound in rich cloth of gold, and deliver it to a poor man whom they should discover at the postern-gate.
	narrator	And the child being delivered thus to Merlin, who himself took the guise of a poor man
	narrator	was carried by him to a holy priest and christened by the name of Arthur, and then was taken to Sir Ector's house
	narrator	and nourished at Sir Ector's wife's own breasts.
	narrator	And in the same house he remained privily for many years, no man soever knowing where he was
	narrator	save Merlin and the king.
	narrator	Anon it befell that the king was seized by a lingering distemper, and the Saxon heathens, taking their occasion
	narrator	came back from over sea, and swarmed upon the land, wasting it with fire and sword.
	narrator	When Uther heard thereof, he fell into a greater rage than his weakness could bear, and commanded all his nobles to come before him
	narrator	that he might upbraid them for their cowardice.
	narrator	And when he had sharply and hotly rebuked them, he swore that he himself, nigh unto death although he lay
	narrator	would lead them forth against the enemy.
	narrator	Then causing a horse-litter to be made, in which he might be carried--for he was too faint and weak to ride--he went up with all
	narrator	his army swiftly against the Saxons.
	narrator	But they, when they heard that Uther was coming in a litter, disdained to fight him, saying it would be shame for brave men to
	narrator	fight with one half dead.
	narrator	So they retired into their city; and, as it were in scorn of danger, left the gates wide open.
	narrator	But Uther straightway commanding his men to assault the town, they did so without loss of time
	narrator	and had already reached the gates, when the Saxons, repenting too late of their haughty pride, rushed forth to the defense.
	narrator	The battle raged till night, and was begun again next day; but at last, their leaders, Octa and Eosa
	narrator	being slain, the Saxons turned their backs and fled, leaving the Britons a full triumph.
	uther	They called me the half-dead king, and so indeed I was; but victory to me half dead is better than defeat and the best health.
	uther	For to die with honor is far better than to live disgraced.
	narrator	But the Saxons, although thus defeated, were ready still for war.
	narrator	Uther would have pursued them; but his illness had by now so grown, that his knights and barons kept him from the adventure.
	narrator	Whereat the enemy took courage, and left nothing undone to destroy the land; until, descending to the vilest treachery
	narrator	they resolved to kill the king by poison.
	narrator	To this end, as he lay sick at Verulum, they sent and poisoned stealthily a spring of clear water
	narrator	whence he was wont to drink daily; and so, on the very next day, he was taken with the pains of death
	narrator	as were also a hundred others after him, before the villainy was discovered, and heaps of earth thrown over the well.
	narrator	The knights and barons, full of sorrow, now took counsel together, and came to Merlin for his help to learn the king's will before he
	narrator	died
	narrator	for he was by this time speechless.
	narrator	"Sirs, there is no remedy," said Merlin, "and God's will must be done; but be ye all to-morrow before him
	narrator	for God will make him speak before he die."
	narrator	So on the morrow all the barons, with Merlin, stood round the bedside of the king; and Merlin said aloud to Uther
	narrator	"Lord, shall thy son Arthur be the king of all this realm after thy days?"
	uther	God's blessing and mine be upon him. I bid him pray for my soul, and also that he claim my crown
	uther	or forfeit all my blessing;
	narrator	and with those words he died.
	narrator	Then came together all the bishops and the clergy, and great multitudes of people, and bewailed the king; and carrying his body to the convent
	narrator	of Ambrius
	narrator	they buried it close by his brother's grave, within the "Giants' Dance."
