	narrator	The land of Britain being now in peace, and many great and valiant knights therein ready to take part in whatsoever battles or adventures might
	narrator	arise
	narrator	King Arthur resolved to follow all his enemies to their own coasts.
	narrator	Anon he fitted out a great fleet, and sailing first to Ireland, in one battle he miserably routed the people of the country.
	narrator	The King of Ireland also he took prisoner, and forced all earls and barons to pay him homage.
	narrator	Having conquered Ireland, he went next to Iceland and subdued it also, and the winter being then arrived
	narrator	returned to Britain.
	narrator	In the next year he set forth to Norway, whence many times the heathen had descended on the British coasts; for he was determined to
	narrator	give so terrible a lesson to those savages as should be told through all their tribes both far and near
	narrator	and make his name fearful to them.
	narrator	As soon as he was come, Riculf, the king, with all the power of that country, met and gave him battle; but
	narrator	after mighty slaughter, the Britons had at length the advantage, and slew Riculf and a countless multitude besides.
	narrator	Having thus defeated them, they set the cities on fire, dispersed the country people, and pursued the victory till they had reduced all Norway
	narrator	as also Dacia, under the dominion of King Arthur.
	narrator	Now, therefore, having thus chastised those pagans who so long had harassed Britain, and put his yoke upon them
	narrator	he voyaged on to Gaul, being steadfastly set upon defeating the Roman governor of that province, and so beginning to make good the threats which
	narrator	he had sent the emperor by his ambassadors.
	narrator	So soon as he was landed on the shores of Gaul, there came to him a countryman who told him of a fearful giant in
	narrator	the land of Brittany
	narrator	who had slain, murdered, and devoured many people, and had lived for seven years upon young children only
	narrator	"insomuch," said the man, "that all the children of the country are destroyed; and but the other day he seized upon our duchess
	narrator	as she rode out with her men, and took her away to his lodging in a cave of a mountain
	narrator	and though five hundred people followed her, yet could they give her no help or rescue, but left her shrieking and crying lamentably in the
	narrator	giant's hands; and
	narrator	Lord, she is thy cousin Hoel's wife, who is of thy near kindred; wherefore, as thou art a rightful king
	narrator	have pity on this lady; and as thou art a valiant conqueror, avenge us and deliver us."
	king arthur	Alas! this is a great mischief that ye tell of. I had rather than the best realm I have
	king arthur	that I had rescued that lady ere the giant laid his hand on her; but tell me now
	king arthur	good fellow, canst thou bring me where this giant haunteth?
	narrator	"Yea, Lord!" replied the man; "lo, yonder, where thou seest two great fires, there shalt thou find him
	narrator	and more treasure also than is in all Gaul besides."
	narrator	Then the king returned to his tent, and, calling Sir Key and Sir Bedwin, desired them to get horses ready for himself and them
	narrator	for that after evensong he would ride a pilgrimage with them alone to St.
	narrator	Michael's Mount.
	narrator	So in the evening they departed, and rode as fast as they could till they came near the mount
	narrator	and there alighted; and the king commanded the two knights to await him at the hill foot
	narrator	while he went up alone.
	narrator	Then he ascended the mountain till he came to a great fire.
	narrator	And there he found a sorrowful widow wringing her hands and weeping miserably, sitting by a new-made grave.
	narrator	And saluting her, King Arthur prayed her wherefore she made such heavy lamentations.
	narrator	"Sir knight," she said, "speak softly, for yonder is a devil, who, if he hear thy voice
	narrator	will come and straightway slay thee. Alas! what dost thou here? Fifty such men as thou were powerless to resist him. Here lieth dead my
	narrator	lady
	narrator	Duchess of Brittany, wife to Sir Hoel, who was the fairest lady in the world, foully and shamefully slaughtered by that fiend! Beware that thou
	narrator	go not too nigh
	narrator	for he hath overcome and vanquished fifteen kings, and hath made himself a coat of precious stones
	narrator	embroidered with their beards; but if thou art so hardy, and wilt speak with him, at yonder great fire he is at supper."
	king arthur	Well, I will accomplish mine errand, for all thy fearful words;
	narrator	and so went forth to the crest of the hill, and saw where the giant sat at supper
	narrator	gnawing on a limb of a man, and baking his huge frame by the fire, while three damsels turned three spits
	narrator	whereon were spitted, like larks, twelve young children lately born.
	narrator	When King Arthur saw all that, his heart bled for sorrow, and he trembled for rage and indignation; then lifting up his voice he cried
	narrator	aloud--"God
	narrator	that wieldeth all the world, give thee short life and shameful death, and may the devil have thy soul! Why hast thou slain those children
	narrator	and that fair lady! Wherefore arise
	narrator	and prepare thee to perish, thou glutton and fiend, for this day thou shalt die by my hands."
	narrator	Then the giant, mad with fury at these words, started up, and seizing a great club, smote the king
	narrator	and struck his crown from off his head.
	narrator	But King Arthur smote him with his sword so mightily in return, that all his blood gushed forth in streams.
	narrator	At that the giant, howling in great anguish, threw away his club of iron, and caught the king in both his arms and strove to
	narrator	crush his ribs together.
	narrator	But King Arthur struggled and writhed, and twisted him about so that the giant could not hold him tightly; and as they fiercely wrestled
	narrator	they both fell, and rolling over one another, tumbled--wrestling, and struggling, and fighting frantically--from rock to rock
	narrator	till they came to the sea.
	narrator	And as they tore and strove and tumbled, the king ever and anon smote at the giant with his dagger
	narrator	till his arms stiffened in death around King Arthur's body, and groaning horribly, he died.
	narrator	So presently the two knights came and found the king locked fast in the giant's arms, and very faint and weary
	narrator	and loosed him from their hold.
	narrator	Then the king bade Sir Key to smite off the giant's head, and set it on the truncheon of a spear
	narrator	and bear it to Sir Hoel, and tell him that his enemy is slain; and afterwards let it be fastened to the castle gate
	narrator	that all the people may behold it.
	narrator	And go ye two up on the mountain and fetch me my shield and sword, and also the great club of iron ye will see
	narrator	there; and as for the treasure
	narrator	ye shall find there wealth beyond counting, but take as much as ye will, for I have his kirtle and the club
	narrator	I desire no more.
	narrator	Then the knights fetched the club and kirtle, as the king had ordered, and took the treasure to themselves
	narrator	as much as they could carry, and returned to the army.
	narrator	But when this deed was noised abroad, all the people came in multitudes to thank the king
	narrator	who told them to give thanks to God, and to divide the giant's spoils amongst them equally.
	narrator	And King Arthur desired Sir Hoel to build a church upon the mount, and dedicate it to the Archangel Michael.
	narrator	On the morrow, all the host moved onwards into the country of Champagne, and Flollo, the Roman tribune
	narrator	retired before them into Paris.
	narrator	But while he was preparing to collect more forces from the neighboring countries, King Arthur came upon him unawares; and besieged him in the town.
	narrator	And when a month had passed, Flollo--full of grief at the starvation of his people, who died in hundreds day by day--sent to King Arthur
	narrator	and desired that they two might fight together; for he was a man of mighty stature and courage
	narrator	and thought himself sure of the victory.
	narrator	This challenge, King Arthur, full weary of the siege, accepted with great joy, and sent back word to Flollo that he would meet him whensoever
	narrator	he appointed.
	narrator	And a truce being made on both sides, they met together the next day on the island without the city
	narrator	where all the people also were gathered to see the issue.
	narrator	And as the king and Flollo rode up to the lists, each was so nobly armed and horsed
	narrator	and sat so mightily upon his saddle, that no man could tell which way the battle would end.
	narrator	When they had saluted one another, and presented themselves against each other with their lances aloft, they put spurs to their horses and began a
	narrator	fierce encounter.
	narrator	But King Arthur, carrying his spear more warily, struck it on the upper part of Flollo's breast
	narrator	and flung him from his saddle to the earth.
	narrator	Then drawing his sword, he cried to him to rise, and rushed upon him; but Flollo, starting up
	narrator	met him with his spear couched, and pierced the breast of King Arthur's horse, and overthrew both horse and man.
	narrator	The Britons, when they saw their king upon the ground, could scarcely keep themselves from breaking up the truce and falling on the Gauls.
	narrator	But as they were about to burst the barriers, and rush upon the lists, King Arthur hastily arose
	narrator	and, guarding himself with his shield, ran with speed on Flollo.
	narrator	And now they renewed the assault with great rage, being sorely bent upon each other's death.
	narrator	At length, Flollo, seizing his advantage, gave King Arthur a huge stroke upon the helm, which nigh overthrew him
	narrator	and drew forth his blood in streams.
	narrator	But when King Arthur saw his armor and shield all red with blood, he was inflamed with fury
	narrator	and lifting up Excalibur on high, with all his might, he struck straight through the helmet into Flollo's head
	narrator	and smote it into halves; and Flollo falling backwards, and tearing up the ground with his spurs
	narrator	expired.
	narrator	As soon as this news spread, the citizens all ran together, and, opening the gates, surrendered the city to the conqueror.
	narrator	And when he had overrun the whole province with his arms, and reduced it everywhere to subjection
	narrator	he returned again to Britain, and held his court at Caerleon, with greater state than ever.
	narrator	Anon he invited thereto all the kings, dukes, earls, and barons, who owed him homage, that he might treat them royally
	narrator	and reconcile them to each other, and to his rule.
	narrator	And never was there a city more fit and pleasant for such festivals.
	narrator	For on one side it was washed by a noble river, so that the kings and princes from the countries beyond sea might conveniently sail
	narrator	up to it; and on the other side
	narrator	the beauty of the groves and meadows, and the stateliness and magnificence of the royal palaces, with lofty gilded roofs
	narrator	made it even rival the grandeur of Rome.
	narrator	It was famous also for two great and noble churches, whereof one was built in honor of the martyr Julius
	narrator	and adorned with a choir of virgins who had devoted themselves wholly to the service of God; and the other
	narrator	founded in memory of St.
	narrator	Aaron, his companion, maintained a convent of canons, and was the third metropolitan church of Britain.
	narrator	Besides, there was a college of two hundred philosophers, learned in astronomy, and all the other sciences and arts.
	narrator	In this place, therefore, full of such delights, King Arthur held his court, with many jousts and tournaments
	narrator	and royal huntings, and rested for a season after all his wars.
	narrator	And on a certain day there came into the court a messenger from Ryence, King of North Wales
	narrator	bearing this message from his master:
	king ryence	That King Ryence had discomfited eleven kings, and had compelled each one of them to cut off his beard; that he had trimmed a mantle
	king ryence	with these beards
	king ryence	and lacked but one more beard to finish it; and that he therefore now sent for King Arthur's beard
	king ryence	which he required of him forthwith, or else he would enter his lands and burn and slay
	king ryence	and never leave them till he had taken by force not his beard only, but his head also.
	narrator	When King Arthur heard these words he flushed all scarlet, and rising in great anger said
	king arthur	Well it is for thee that thou speakest another man's words with thy lips, and not thine own. Thou hast said thy message
	king arthur	which is the most insolent and villainous that ever man heard sent to any king: now hear my reply. My beard is yet too young
	king arthur	to trim that mantle of thy master's with; yet
	king arthur	young although I be, I owe no homage either to him or any man--nor will ever owe. But
	king arthur	young although I be, I will have thy master's homage upon both his knees before this year be past
	king arthur	or else he shall lose his head, by the faith of my body, for this message is the shamefullest I ever heard speak of. I
	king arthur	see well thy king hath never yet met with a worshipful man; but tell him that King Arthur will have his head or his worship
	king arthur	right soon.
	narrator	Then the messenger departed, and Arthur, looking round upon his knights, demanded of them if any there knew this King Ryence
	sir noran	Yea, I know him well, and there be few better or stronger knights upon a field than he; and he is passing proud and haughty
	sir noran	in his heart; wherefore I doubt not
	sir noran	Lord, he will make war on thee with mighty power.
	king arthur	Well, I shall be ready for him, and that shall he find.
	narrator	While the king thus spoke, there came into the hall a damsel having on a mantle richly furred
	narrator	which she let fall, and showed herself to be girded with a noble sword.
	narrator	The king being surprised at this, said
	king arthur	Damsel, wherefore art thou girt with that sword, for it beseemeth thee not?
	the damsel	Sir, I will tell thee. This sword wherewith I am thus girt gives me great sorrow and encumbrance
	the damsel	for I may not be delivered from it till I find a knight faithful and pure and true
	the damsel	strong of body and of valiant deeds, without guile or treachery, who shall be able to draw it from its scabbard
	the damsel	which no man else can do. And I have but just now come from the court of King Ryence
	the damsel	for there they told me many great and good knights were to be ever found; but he and all his knights have tried to draw
	the damsel	it forth in vain--for none of them can move it.
	king arthur	This is a great marvel; I will myself try to draw forth this sword, not thinking in my heart that I am the best knight
	king arthur	but rather to begin and give example that all may try after me.
	narrator	Saying this, he took the sword and pulled at it with all his might, but could not shake or move it.
	the damsel	Thou needest not strive so hard, Lord, for whoever may be able to pull it forth shall do so very easily.
	king arthur	Thou sayest well, replied the king, remembering how he had himself drawn forth the sword from the stone before St. Paul's. Now try ye
	king arthur	all my barons; but beware ye be not stained with shame, or any treachery, or guile.
	narrator	And turning away his face from them, King Arthur mused full heavily on sins within his breast he knew of
	narrator	and which his failure brought to mind right sadly.
	narrator	Then all the barons present tried each after other, but could none of them succeed; whereat the damsel greatly wept
	narrator	and said
	the damsel	Alas, alas! I thought in this court to have found the best knight, without shame or treachery or treason.
	narrator	Now by chance there was at that time a poor knight with King Arthur, who had been prisoner at his court for half a year
	narrator	or more
	narrator	charged with slaying unawares a knight who was a cousin of the king's.
	narrator	He was named Balin le Savage, and had been by the good offices of the barons delivered from prison
	narrator	for he was of good and valiant address and gentle blood.
	narrator	He being secretly present at the court saw this advantage, and felt his heart rise high within him
	narrator	and longed to try the sword as did the others; but being poor and poorly clad, he was ashamed to come forward in the press
	narrator	of knights and nobles.
	narrator	But in his heart he felt assured that he could do better--if Heaven willed--than any knight among them all.
	narrator	So as the damsel left the king, he called to her and said
	balin le savage	Damsel, I pray thee of thy courtesy, suffer me to try the sword as well as all these lords; for though I be but poorly
	balin le savage	clad
	balin le savage	I feel assurance in my heart.
	the damsel	Sir, there is no need to put me to any more pain or labor; why shouldst thou succeed where so many worthy ones have failed?
	balin le savage	Ah, fair lady, worthiness and brave deeds are not shown by fair raiment but manhood and truth lie hid within the heart. There be many
	balin le savage	worshipful knights unknown to all the people.
	the damsel	By my faith, thou sayest truth; try therefore, if thou wilt, what thou canst do.
	narrator	So Balin took the sword by the girdle and hilt, and drew it lightly out, and looking on its workmanship and brightness
	narrator	it pleased him greatly.
	narrator	But the king and all the barons marveled at Sir Balin's fortune, and many knights were envious of him
	narrator	for, "Truly," said the damsel, "this is a passing good knight, and the best man I have ever found
	narrator	and the most worshipfully free from treason, treachery, or villainy, and many wonders shall he achieve.
	the damsel	Now, gentle and courteous knight, give me the sword again.
	balin le savage	Nay, said Sir Balin, save it be taken from me by force, I shall preserve this sword for evermore.
	the damsel	Thou art not wise, replied the damsel, to keep it from me; for if thou wilt do so
	the damsel	thou shall slay with it the best friend thou hast, and the sword shall be thine own destruction also.
	balin le savage	I will take whatever adventure God may send, said Balin; but the sword will I keep, by the faith of my body.
	the damsel	Thou will repent it shortly, said the damsel; I would take the sword for thy sake rather than for mine
	the damsel	for I am passing grieved and heavy for thy sake, who wilt not believe the peril I foretell thee.
	narrator	With that she departed, making great lamentation.
	narrator	Then Balin sent for his horse and armor, and took his leave of King Arthur, who urged him to stay at his court.
	king arthur	For I believe that thou art displeased that I showed thee unkindness; blame me not overmuch, for I was misinformed against thee
	king arthur	and knew not truly what a knight of worship thou art. Abide in this court with my good knights
	king arthur	and I will so advance thee that thou shalt be well pleased.
	balin le savage	God thank thee, Lord, for no man can reward thy bounty and thy nobleness; but at this time I must needs depart
	balin le savage	praying thee ever to hold me in thy favor.
	king arthur	Truly, I am grieved for thy departure; but tarry not long, and thou shalt be right welcome to me and all my knights when thou
	king arthur	returnest
	king arthur	and I will repair my neglect and all that I have done amiss against thee.
	balin le savage	God thank thee, Lord, again said Balin, and made ready to depart.
	narrator	But meanwhile came into the court a lady upon horseback, full richly dressed, and saluted King Arthur
	narrator	and asked him for the gift that he had promised her when she gave him his sword Excalibur
	the lady of the lake	for I am the lady of the lake.
	king arthur	Ask what thou wilt, and thou shalt have it, if I have power to give.
	the lady of the lake	I ask, the head of that knight who hath just achieved the sword, or else the damsel's head who brought it
	the lady of the lake	or else both; for the knight slew my brother, and the lady caused my father's death.
	king arthur	Truly, I cannot grant thee this desire; it were against my nature and against my name; but ask whatever else thou wilt
	king arthur	and I will do it.
	the lady of the lake	I will demand no other thing.
	narrator	And as she spake came Balin, on his way to leave the court, and saw her where she stood
	narrator	and knew her straightway for his mother's murderess, whom he had sought in vain three years.
	narrator	And when they told him that she had asked King Arthur for his head, he went up straight to her and said
	balin le savage	May evil have thee! Thou desirest my head, therefore shalt thou lose thine
	narrator	and with his sword he lightly smote her head off, in the presence of the king and all the court.
	king arthur	Alas, for shame! Why hast thou done this, shaming both me and my court? I am beholden greatly to this lady
	king arthur	and under my safe conduct came she here; thy deed is passing shameful; never shall I forgive thy villainy.
	balin le savage	Lord, hear me; this lady was the falsest living, and by her witchcraft hath destroyed many, and caused my mother also to be burnt to
	balin le savage	death by her false arts and treachery.
	king arthur	What cause soever thou mightest have had, thou shouldst have forborne her in my presence. Deceive not thyself
	king arthur	thou shalt repent this sin, for such a shame was never brought upon my court; depart now from my face with all the haste thou
	king arthur	mayest.
	narrator	Then Balin took up the head of the lady and carried it to his lodgings, and rode forth with his squire from out the town.
	narrator	Then said he,
	balin le savage	Now must we part; take ye this head and bear it to my friends in Northumberland, and tell them how I speed
	balin le savage	and that our worst foe is dead; also tell them that I am free from prison, and of the adventure of my sword.
	the squire	Alas! ye are greatly to blame to have so displeased King Arthur.
	balin le savage	As for that, I go now to find King Ryence, and destroy him or lose my life; for should I take him prisoner
	balin le savage	and lead him to the court, perchance King Arthur would forgive me, and become my good and gracious lord.
	the squire	Where shall I meet thee again?
	balin le savage	In King Arthur's court.
