	narrator	After these things Merlin fell into a dotage of love for a damsel of the lady of the lake
	narrator	and would let her have no rest, but followed her in every place.
	narrator	And ever she encouraged him, and made him welcome till she had learned all his crafts that she desired to know.
	narrator	Then upon a time she went with him beyond the sea to the land of Benwicke, and as they went he showed her many wonders
	narrator	till at length she was afraid, and would fain have been delivered from him.
	narrator	And as they were in the forest of Broceliande, they sat together under an oak-tree, and the damsel prayed to see all that charm whereby
	narrator	men might be shut up yet alive in rocks or trees.
	narrator	But he refused her a long time, fearing to let her know, yet in the end, her prayers and kisses overcame him
	narrator	and he told her all.
	narrator	Then did she make him great cheer, but anon, as he lay down to sleep, she softly rose
	narrator	and walked about him waving her hands and muttering the charm, and presently enclosed him fast within the tree whereby he slept.
	narrator	And therefrom nevermore he could by any means come out for all the crafts that he could do.
	narrator	And so she departed and left Merlin.
	narrator	At the vigil of the next Feast of Pentecost, when all the Knights of the Round Table were met together at Camelot
	narrator	and had heard mass, and were about to sit down to meat, there rode into the hall a fair lady on horseback
	narrator	who went straight up to King Arthur where he sat upon his throne, and reverently saluted him.
	king arthur	God be with thee, fair damsel, what desirest thou of me?
	damsel of the lake	I pray thee tell me, lord, where Sir Lancelot is.
	king arthur	Yonder may ye see him.
	damsel of the lake	Sir, I salute thee in King Pelles' name, and require thee to come with me into the forest hereby.
	sir lancelot	Then asked he her with whom she dwelt, and what she wished of him.
	damsel of the lake	I dwell with King Pelles, whom Balin erst so sorely wounded when he smote the dolorous stroke. It is he who hath sent me to
	damsel of the lake	call thee.
	sir lancelot	I will go with thee gladly, and bade his squire straightway saddle his horse and bring his armor.
	queen guinevere	Sir Lancelot, will ye leave me thus at this high feast?
	damsel of the lake	Madam, by dinner-time to-morrow he shall be with you.
	queen guinevere	If I thought not, he should not go with thee by my goodwill.
	narrator	Then Sir Lancelot and the lady rode forth till they came to the forest, and in a valley thereof found an abbey of nuns
	narrator	whereby a squire stood ready to open the gates.
	narrator	When they had entered, and descended from their horses, a joyful crowd pressed round Sir Lancelot and heartily saluted him
	narrator	and led him to the abbess's chamber, and unarmed him.
	narrator	Anon he saw his cousins likewise there, Sir Bors and Sir Lionel, who also made great joy at seeing him
	narrator	and said, "By what adventure art thou here, for we thought to have seen thee at Camelot to-morrow?"
	sir lancelot	A damsel brought me here, but as yet I know not for what service.
	narrator	As they thus talked twelve nuns came in, who brought with them a youth so passing fair and well made
	narrator	that in all the world his match could not be found.
	narrator	His name was Galahad, and though he knew him not, nor Lancelot him, Sir Lancelot was his father.
	narrator	"Sir," said the nuns, "we bring thee here this child whom we have nourished from his youth
	narrator	and pray thee to make him a knight, for from no worthier hand can he receive that order."
	sir lancelot	Cometh this desire from himself?
	sir galahad	Yea, and all the nuns.
	sir lancelot	To-morrow, then, in reverence for the feast, he shall have his wish.
	narrator	And the next day at the hour of prime, he knighted him, and said, "God make of thee as good a man as He hath
	narrator	made thee beautiful."
	narrator	Then with Sir Lionel and Sir Bors he returned to the court, and found all gone to the minster to hear service.
	narrator	When they came into the banquet-hall each knight and baron found his name written in some seat in letters of gold
	narrator	as "here ought to sit Sir Lionel," "here ought to sit Sir Gawain,"--and so forth.
	narrator	And in the Perilous Seat, at the high center of the table, a name was also written
	narrator	whereat they marveled greatly, for no living man had ever yet dared sit upon that seat, save one
	narrator	and him a flame leaped forth and drew down under earth, so that he was no more seen.
	narrator	Then came Sir Lancelot and read the letters in that seat, and said, "My counsel is that this inscription be now covered up until the
	narrator	knight be come who shall achieve this great adventure." So they made a veil of silk and put it over the letters.
	narrator	In the meanwhile came Sir Gawain to the court and told the king he had a message to him from beyond the sea
	narrator	from Merlin.
	sir gawain	For, as I rode through the forest of Broceliande but five days since, I heard the voice of Merlin speaking to me from the midst
	sir gawain	of an oak-tree
	sir gawain	whereat, in great amazement, I besought him to come forth. But he, with many groans, replied he never more might do so
	sir gawain	for that none could free him, save the damsel of the Lake, who had enclosed him there by his own spells which he had taught
	sir gawain	her. 'But go,' said he
	sir gawain	'to King Arthur, and tell him, that he now prepare his knights and all his Table Round to seek the Sangreal
	sir gawain	for the time is come when it shall be achieved.
	narrator	When Sir Gawain had spoken thus, King Arthur sat pensive in spirit, and mused deeply of the Holy Grail and what saintly knight should come
	narrator	who might achieve it.
	narrator	Anon he bade them hasten to set on the banquet.
	narrator	"Sir," said Sir Key, the seneschal, "if we go now to meat ye will break the ancient custom of your court
	narrator	for never have ye dined at this high feast till ye have seen some strange adventure."
	narrator	Thou sayest truly,
	king arthur	but my mind was full of wonders and musings, till I bethought me not of mine old custom.
	narrator	As they stood speaking thus, a squire ran in and cried,
	squire	Lord, I bring thee marvelous tidings.
	king arthur	What be they?
	squire	Lord, hereby at the river is a marvelous great stone, which I myself saw swim down hither-wards upon the water
	squire	and in it there is set a sword, and ever the stone heaveth and swayeth on the water
	squire	but floateth down no further with the stream.
	king arthur	I will go and see it,
	narrator	So all the knights went with him, and when they came to the river, there surely found they a mighty stone of red marble floating
	narrator	on the water
	narrator	as the squire had said, and therein stuck a fair and rich sword, on the pommel whereof were precious stones wrought skillfully with gold into
	narrator	these words:
	narrator	"No man shall take me hence but he by whose side I should hang, and he shall be the best knight in the world."
	king arthur	When the king read this, he turned round to Sir Lancelot, and said,
	king arthur	Fair sir, this sword ought surely to be thine, for thou art the best knight in all the world.
	sir lancelot	Certainly, sir, it is not for me; nor will I have the hardihood to set my hand upon it. For he that toucheth it and
	sir lancelot	faileth to achieve it shall one day be wounded by it mortally. But I doubt not
	sir lancelot	lord, this day will show the greatest marvels that we yet have seen, for now the time is fully come
	sir lancelot	as Merlin hath forewarned us, when all the prophecies about the Sangreal shall be fulfilled.
	narrator	Then stepped Sir Gawain forward and pulled at the sword, but could not move it, and after him Sir Percival
	narrator	to keep him fellowship in any peril he might suffer.
	narrator	But no other knight durst be so hardy as to try.
	sir key	Now may ye go to your dinner, for a marvelous adventure ye have had.
	narrator	So all returned from the river, and every knight sat down in his own place, and the high feast and banquet then was sumptuously begun
	narrator	and all the hall was full of laughter and loud talk and jests, and running to and fro of squires who served their knights
	narrator	and noise of jollity and mirth.
	narrator	Then suddenly befell a wondrous thing, for all the doors and windows of the hall shut violently of themselves
	narrator	and made thick darkness; and presently there came a fair and gentle light from out the Perilous Seat
	narrator	and filled the palace with its beams.
	narrator	Then a dead silence fell on all the knights, and each man anxiously beheld his neighbor.
	king arthur	Lords and fair knights, have ye no fear, but rejoice; we have seen strange things to-day, but stranger yet remain. For now I know we
	king arthur	shall to-day see him who may sit in the Siege Perilous
	king arthur	and shall achieve the Sangreal. For as ye all well know, that holy vessel, wherefrom at the Supper of our Lord before His death He
	king arthur	drank the wine with His disciples
	king arthur	hath been held ever since the holiest treasure of the world, and wheresoever it hath rested peace and prosperity have rested with it on the
	king arthur	land. But since the dolorous stroke which Balin gave King Pelles none have seen it
	king arthur	for Heaven, wroth with that presumptuous blow, hath hid it none know where. Yet somewhere in the world it still may be
	king arthur	and may be it is left to us, and to this noble order of the Table Round
	king arthur	to find and bring it home, and make of this our realm the happiest in the earth. Many great quests and perilous adventures have ye
	king arthur	all taken and achieved
	king arthur	but this high quest he only shall attain who hath clean hands and a pure heart, and valor and hardihood beyond all other men.
	narrator	While the king spoke there came in softly an old man robed all in white, leading with him a young knight clad in red from
	narrator	top to toe
	narrator	but without armor or shield, and having by his side an empty scabbard.
	old man	Lord, here I bring thee this young knight of royal lineage, and of the blood of Joseph of Arimathea
	old man	by whom the marvels of thy court shall fully be accomplished.
	king arthur	Sir, ye be right heartily welcome, and the young knight also.
	old man	This place is thine.
	narrator	Then the old man put on Sir Galahad (for it was he) a crimson robe trimmed with fine ermine
	narrator	and took him by the hand and led him to the Perilous Seat, and lifting up the silken cloth which hung upon it
	narrator	read these words written in gold letters,
	narrator	"This is the seat of Sir Galahad, the good knight."
	sir galahad	Sir, ye may now go your way, for ye have done well and truly all ye were commanded
	sir galahad	and commend me to my grandsire, King Pelles, and say that I shall see him soon.
	narrator	So the old man departed with a retinue of twenty noble squires.
	narrator	But all the knights of the Round Table marveled at Sir Galahad, and at his tender age
	narrator	and at his sitting there so surely in the Perilous Seat.
	king arthur	Here,
	narrator	said he, "is as great a marvel as I ever saw, and right good knights have tried and failed to gain that sword."
	sir galahad	I marvel not thereat,
	narrator	said Galahad, "for this adventure is not theirs, but mine; and for the certainty I had thereof
	narrator	I brought no sword with me, as thou mayst see here by this empty scabbard."
	narrator	Anon he laid his hand upon the sword, and lightly drew it from the stone, and put it in his sheath
	narrator	and said,
	sir galahad	This sword was that enchanted one which erst belonged to the good knight, Sir Balin, wherewith he slew through piteous mistake his brother Balan; who
	sir galahad	also slew him at the same time: all which great woe befell him through the dolorous stroke he gave my grandsire
	sir galahad	King Pelles, the wound whereof is not yet whole, nor shall be till I heal him.
	narrator	As he stood speaking thus, they saw a lady riding swiftly down the river's bank towards them
	narrator	on a white palfrey, who, saluting the king and queen, said,
	damsel of the lake	Lord king, Nacien the hermit sendeth thee word that to thee shall come to-day the greatest honor and worship that hath yet ever befallen a
	damsel of the lake	king of Britain; for this day shall the Sangreal appear in thy house.
	narrator	With that the damsel took her leave, and departed the same way she came.
	narrator	"Now," said the king, "I know that from to-day the quest of the Sangreal shall begin, and all ye of the Round Table will be
	narrator	scattered so that nevermore shall I see ye again together as ye are now; let me then see a joust and tournament amongst ye for
	narrator	the last time before ye go."
	narrator	So they all took their harness and met together in the meadows by Camelot, and the queen and all her ladies sat in a tower
	narrator	to see.
	narrator	Then Sir Galahad, at the prayer of the king and queen, put on a coat of light armor
	narrator	and a helmet, but shield he would take none, and grasping a lance, he drove into the middle of the press of knights
	narrator	and began to break spears marvelously, so that all men were full of wonder.
	narrator	And in so short a time he had surmounted and exceeded the rest, save Sir Lancelot and Sir Percival
	narrator	that he took the chief worship of the field.
	narrator	Then the king and all the court and fellowship of knights went back to the palace, and so to evensong in the great minster
	narrator	a royal and goodly company, and after that sat down to supper in the hall, every knight in his own seat
	narrator	as they had been before.
	narrator	Anon suddenly burst overhead the cracking and crying of great peals of thunder, till the palace walls were shaken sorely
	narrator	and they thought to see them riven all to pieces.
	narrator	And in the midst of the blast there entered in a sunbeam, clearer by seven times than ever they saw day
	narrator	and a marvelous great glory fell upon them all.
	narrator	Then each knight, looking on his neighbor, found his face fairer than he had ever seen, and so--all standing on their feet--they gazed as dumb
	narrator	men on each other
	narrator	not knowing what to say.
	narrator	Then entered into the hall the Sangreal, borne aloft without hands through the midst of the sunbeam
	narrator	and covered with white samite, so that none might see it.
	narrator	And all the hall was filled with perfume and incense, and every knight was fed with the food he best loved.
	narrator	And when the holy vessel had been thus borne through the hall, it suddenly departed, no man saw whither.
	narrator	When they recovered breath to speak, King Arthur first rose up, and yielded thanks to God and to our Lord.
	narrator	Then Sir Gawain sprang up and said, "Now have we all been fed by miracle with whatsoever food we thought of or desired; but with
	narrator	our eyes we have not seen the blessed vessel whence it came
	narrator	so carefully and preciously it was concealed. Therefore, I make a vow, that from to-morrow I shall labor twelve months and a day in quest
	narrator	of the Sangreal
	narrator	and longer if need be; nor will I come again into this court until mine eyes have seen it evidently."
	narrator	When he had spoken thus, knight after knight rose up and vowed himself to the same quest
	narrator	till the most part of the Round Table had thus sworn.
	narrator	But when King Arthur heard them all, he could not refrain his eyes from tears, and said
	narrator	"Sir Gawain, Sir Gawain, thou hast set me in great sorrow, for I fear me my true fellowship shall never meet together here again; and
	narrator	surely never Christian king had such a company of worthy knights around his table at one time."
	narrator	And when the queen and her ladies and gentlewomen heard the vows, they had such grief and sorrow as no tongue could tell; and Queen
	narrator	Guinevere cried out
	narrator	"I marvel that my lord will suffer them to depart from him." And many of the ladies who loved knights would have gone with them
	narrator	but were forbidden by the hermit Nacien, who sent this message to all who had sworn themselves to the quest: "Take with ye no lady
	narrator	nor gentlewoman
	narrator	for into so high a service as ye go in, no thought but of our Lord and heaven may enter."
	narrator	On the morrow morning all the knights rose early, and when they were fully armed, save shields and helms
	narrator	they went in with the king and queen to service in the minster.
	narrator	Then the king counted all who had taken the adventure on themselves, and found them a hundred and fifty knights of the Round Table; and
	narrator	so they all put on their helms
	narrator	and rode away together in the midst of cries and lamentations from the court, and from the ladies
	narrator	and from all the town.
	narrator	But the queen went alone to her chamber, that no man might see her sorrow; and Sir Lancelot followed her to say farewell.
	queen guinevere	Oh, Sir Lancelot, thou hast betrayed me; thou hast put me to death thus to depart and leave my lord the king.
	sir lancelot	Ah, madam, be not displeased or angry, for I shall come again as soon as I can with honor.
	queen guinevere	Alas! That ever I saw thee; but He that suffered death upon the cross for all mankind be to thee safety and good conduct
	queen guinevere	and to all thy company.
	narrator	Then Sir Lancelot saluted her and the king, and went forth with the rest, and came with them that night to Castle Vagon
	narrator	where they abode, and on the morrow they departed from each other on their separate ways, every knight taking the way that pleased him best.
	narrator	Now Sir Galahad went forth without a shield, and rode so four days without adventure; and on the fourth day
	narrator	after evensong, he came to an abbey of white monks, where he was received in the house
	narrator	and led into a chamber.
	narrator	And there he was unarmed, and met two knights of the Round Table, King Bagdemagus, and Sir Uwaine.
	sir galahad	Sirs, what adventure hath brought ye here?
	king bagdemagus	Within this place, as we are told, there is a shield no man may bear around his neck without receiving sore mischance
	king bagdemagus	or death within three days.
	king bagdemagus	To-morrow, I shall attempt the adventure; and if I fail, do thou, Sir Galahad, take it up after me.
	sir galahad	I will willingly; for as ye see I have no shield as yet.
	narrator	So on the morrow they arose and heard mass, and afterwards King Bagdemagus asked where the shield was kept.
	narrator	Then a monk led him behind the altar, where the shield hung, as white as any snow
	narrator	and with a blood-red cross in the midst of it.
	monk	Sir, this shield should hang from no knight's neck unless he be the worthiest in the world. I warn ye
	monk	therefore, knights; consider well before ye dare to touch it.
	king bagdemagus	Well, I know well that I am far from the best knight in all the world, yet shall I make the trial
	narrator	and so he took the shield, and bore it from the monastery.
	king bagdemagus	If it please thee, sir, abide here till thou hearest how I speed.
	sir galahad	I will abide thee.
	narrator	Then taking with him a squire who might return with any tidings to Sir Galahad, the king rode forth; and before he had gone two
	narrator	miles
	narrator	he saw in a fair valley a hermitage, and a knight who came forth dressed in white armor
	narrator	horse and all, who rode fast against him.
	narrator	When they encountered, Bagdemagus brake his spear upon the White Knight's shield, but was himself struck through the shoulder with a sore wound
	narrator	and hurled down from his horse.
	narrator	Then the White Knight alighting, came and took the white shield from the king, and said,
	white knight	Thou hast done great folly, for this shield ought never to be borne but by one who hath no living peer.
	white knight	Bear thou this shield to the good knight, Sir Galahad, and greet him well from me.
	squire	In whose name shall I greet him?
	white knight	Take thou no heed of that; it is not for thee or any earthly man to know.
	squire	Now tell me, fair sir, at the least, why may this shield be never borne except its wearer come to injury or death?
	white knight	Because it shall belong to no man save its rightful owner, Galahad.
	narrator	Then the squire went to his master, and found him wounded nigh to death, wherefore he fetched his horse
	narrator	and bore him back with him to the abbey.
	narrator	And there they laid him in a bed, and looked to his wounds; and when he had lain many days grievously sick
	narrator	he at the last barely escaped with his life.
	squire	Sir Galahad, the knight who overthrew King Bagdemagus sent you greeting, and bade you bear this shield.
	sir galahad	Now blessed be God and fortune,
	narrator	and hung the shield about his neck, and armed him, and rode forth.
	narrator	Anon he met the White Knight by the hermitage, and each saluted courteously the other.
	sir galahad	Sir, this shield I bear hath surely a full marvelous history.
	white knight	Thou sayest rightly,
	narrator	answered he.
	narrator	"That shield was made in the days of Joseph of Arimathea, the gentle knight who took our Lord down from the cross. He
	narrator	when he left Jerusalem with his kindred, came to the country of King Evelake, who warred continually with one Tollome; and when
	narrator	by the teaching of Joseph, King Evelake became a Christian, this shield was made for him in our Lord's name; and through its aid King
	narrator	Tollome was defeated. For when King Evelake met him next in battle
	narrator	he hid it in a veil, and suddenly uncovering it, he showed his enemies the figure of a bleeding man nailed to a cross
	narrator	at sight of which they were discomfited and fled. Presently after that, a man whose hand was smitten off touched the cross upon the shield
	narrator	and had his hand restored to him; and many other miracles it worked. But suddenly the cross that was upon it vanished away. Anon both
	narrator	Joseph and King Evelake came to Britain
	narrator	and by the preaching of Joseph the people were made Christians. And when at length he lay upon his death-bed
	narrator	King Evelake begged of him some token ere he died. Then, calling for his shield, he dipped his finger in his own blood
	narrator	for he was bleeding fast, and none could staunch the wound, and marked that cross upon it
	narrator	saying, 'This cross shall ever show as bright as now, and the last of my lineage shall wear this shield about his neck
	narrator	and go forth to all the marvelous deeds he will achieve.'"
	narrator	When the White Knight had thus spoken he vanished suddenly away, and Sir Galahad returned to the abbey.
	narrator	As he alighted, came a monk, and prayed him to go see a tomb in the churchyard
	narrator	wherefrom came such a great and hideous noise, that none could hear it but they went nigh mad
	narrator	or lost all strength.
	narrator	"And, sir," said he, "I deem it is a fiend."
	sir galahad	Lead me thither.
	narrator	When they were come near the place, "Now," said the monk, "go thou to the tomb, and lift it up."
	narrator	And Galahad, nothing afraid, quickly lifted up the stone, and forthwith came out a foul smoke, and from the midst thereof leaped up the loathliest
	narrator	figure that ever he had seen in the likeness of man; and Galahad blessed himself
	narrator	for he knew it was a fiend of hell.
	narrator	Then he heard a voice crying out, "Oh, Galahad, I cannot tear thee as I would; I see so many angels round thee
	narrator	that I may not come at thee."
	narrator	Then the fiend suddenly disappeared with a marvelous great cry; and Sir Galahad, looking in the tomb
	narrator	saw there a body all armed, with a sword beside it.
	narrator	"Now, fair brother," said he to the monk, "let us remove this cursed body, which is not fit to lie in a churchyard
	narrator	for when it lived, a false and perjured Christian man dwelt in it. Cast it away, and there shall come no more hideous noises from
	narrator	the tomb."
	sir galahad	And now must I depart, for I have much in hand, and am upon the holy quest of the Sangreal, with many more good knights.
	narrator	So he took his leave, and rode many journeys backwards and forwards as adventure would lead him; and at last one day he departed from
	narrator	a castle without first hearing mass
	narrator	which was it ever his custom to hear before he left his lodging.
	narrator	Anon he found a ruined chapel on a mountain, and went in and kneeled before the altar
	narrator	and prayed for wholesome counsel what to do;
	narrator	and as he prayed he heard a voice, which said,
	voice	Depart, adventurous knight, unto the Maiden's Castle, and redress the violence and wrongs there done!
	narrator	Hearing these words he cheerfully arose, and mounted his horse, and rode but half a mile, when he saw before him a strong castle
	narrator	with deep ditches round it, and a fair river running past.
	narrator	And seeing an old churl hard by, he asked him what men called that castle.
	old churl	Fair sir, it is the Maiden's Castle.
	sir galahad	It is a cursed place, and all its masters are but felons, full of mischief and hardness and shame.
	old churl	For that good reason, thou wert well-advised to turn thee back.
	sir galahad	For that same reason, will I the more certainly ride on.
	narrator	Then, looking at his armor carefully, to see that nothing failed him, he went forward, and presently there met him seven damsels
	narrator	who cried out, "Sir knight, thou ridest in great peril, for thou hast two waters to pass over."
	damsels	Sir knight, thou ridest in great peril, for thou hast two waters to pass over.
	sir galahad	Why should I not pass over them?
	narrator	and rode straight on.
	narrator	Anon he met a squire, who said, "Sir knight, the masters of this castle defy thee, and bid thee go no further
	narrator	till thou showest them thy business here."
	squire	Sir knight, the masters of this castle defy thee, and bid thee go no further, till thou showest them thy business here.
	sir galahad	Fair fellow, I am come here to destroy their wicked customs.
	squire	If that be thy purpose, thou wilt have much to do.
	sir galahad	Go thou, and hasten with my message.
	narrator	In a few minutes after rode forth furiously from the gateways of the castle seven knights, all brothers
	narrator	and crying out, "Knight, keep thee," bore down all at once upon Sir Galahad.
	narrator	But thrusting forth his spear, he smote the foremost to the earth, so that his neck was almost broken
	narrator	and warded with his shield the spears of all the others, which every one brake off from it
	narrator	and shivered into pieces.
	narrator	Then he drew out his sword, and set upon them hard and fiercely, and by his wondrous force drave them before him
	narrator	and chased them to the castle gate, and there he slew them.
	narrator	At that came out to him an ancient man, in priest's vestments, saying, "Behold, sir, here, the keys of this castle."
	ancient man	Behold, sir, here, the keys of this castle.
	narrator	Then he unlocked the gates, and found within a multitude of people, who cried out, "Sir knight
	narrator	ye be welcome, for long have we waited thy deliverance," and told him that the seven felons he had slain had long enslaved the people
	narrator	round about
	narrator	and killed all knights who passed that way, because the maiden whom they had robbed of the castle had foretold that by one knight they
	narrator	should themselves be overthrown.
	sir galahad	Where is the maiden?
	people	She lingereth below in a dungeon.
	narrator	So Sir Galahad went down and released her, and restored her her inheritance; and when he had summoned the barons of the country to do
	narrator	her homage
	narrator	he took his leave, and departed.
	narrator	Presently thereafter, as he rode, he entered a great forest, and in a glade thereof met two knights
	narrator	disguised, who proffered him to joust.
	narrator	These were Sir Lancelot, his father, and Sir Percival, but neither knew the other.
	narrator	So he and Sir Lancelot encountered first, and Sir Galahad smote down his father.
	narrator	Then drawing his sword, for his spear was broken, he fought with Sir Percival, and struck so mightily that he clave Sir Percival's helm
	narrator	and smote him from his horse.
	narrator	Now hard by where they fought there was a hermitage, where dwelt a pious woman, a recluse
	narrator	who, when she heard the sound, came forth, and seeing Sir Galahad ride, she cried, "God be with thee
	narrator	the best knight in the world; had yonder knights known thee as well as I do, they would not have encountered with thee."
	pious woman	God be with thee, the best knight in the world; had yonder knights known thee as well as I do
	pious woman	they would not have encountered with thee.
	narrator	When Sir Galahad heard that, fearing to be made known, he forthwith smote his horse with his spurs
	narrator	and departed at a great pace.
	narrator	Sir Lancelot and Sir Percival heard her words also, and rode fast after him, but within a while he was out of their sight.
	narrator	Then Sir Percival rode back to ask his name of the recluse; but Sir Lancelot went forward on his quest
	narrator	and following any path his horse would take, he came by-and-by after nightfall to a stone cross hard by an ancient chapel.
	narrator	When he had alighted and tied his horse up to a tree, he went and looked in through the chapel door
	narrator	which was all ruinous and wasted, and there within he saw an altar, richly decked with silk
	narrator	whereon there stood a fair candlestick of silver, bearing six great lights.
	narrator	And when Sir Lancelot saw the light, he tried to get within the chapel, but could find no place.
	narrator	So, being passing weary and heavy, he came again to his horse, and when he had unsaddled him
	narrator	and set him free to pasture, he unlaced his helm, and ungirded his sword, and laid him down to sleep upon his shield before the
	narrator	cross.
	narrator	And while he lay between waking and sleeping, he saw come by him two white palfreys bearing a litter
	narrator	wherein a sick knight lay, and the palfreys stood still by the cross.
	narrator	Then Sir Lancelot heard the sick man say, "O sweet Lord, when shall this sorrow leave me
	narrator	and the holy vessel pass by me, wherethrough I shall be blessed? for I have long endured."
	sick knight	O sweet Lord, when shall this sorrow leave me, and the holy vessel pass by me, wherethrough I shall be blessed? for I have long
	sick knight	endured.
	narrator	With that Sir Lancelot saw the chapel open, and the candlestick with the six tapers come before the cross
	narrator	but he could see none who bare it.
	narrator	Then came there also a table of silver, and thereon the holy vessel of the Sangreal.
	narrator	And when the sick knight saw that, he sat up, and lifting both his hands, said, "Fair Lord
	narrator	sweet Lord, who art here within this holy vessel, have mercy on me, that I may be whole"; and therewith he crept upon his hands
	narrator	and knees so nigh
	narrator	that he might touch the vessel; and when he had kissed it, he leaped up, and stood and cried aloud
	narrator	"Lord God, I thank Thee, for I am made whole." Then the Holy Grail departed with the table and the silver candlestick into the chapel
	narrator	so that Sir Lancelot saw it no more, nor for his sins' sake could he follow it.
	narrator	And the knight who was healed went on his way.
	narrator	Then Sir Lancelot awake, and marveled whether he had seen aught but a dream.
	narrator	And as he marveled, he heard a voice saying, "Sir Lancelot, thou art unworthy, go thou hence
	narrator	and withdraw thee from this holy place."
	voice	Sir Lancelot, thou art unworthy, go thou hence, and withdraw thee from this holy place.
	narrator	And when he heard that, he was passing heavy, for he bethought him of his sins.
	narrator	So he departed weeping, and cursed the day of his birth, for the words went into his heart
	narrator	and he knew wherefore he was thus driven forth.
	narrator	Then he went to seek his arms and horse, but could not find them; and then he called himself the wretchedest and most unhappy of
	narrator	all knights
	narrator	and said,
	sir lancelot	My sin hath brought me unto great dishonor: for when I sought earthly honors, I achieved them ever; but now I take upon me holy
	sir lancelot	things
	sir lancelot	my guilt doth hinder me, and shameth me; therefore had I no power to stir or speak when the holy blood appeared before me.
	narrator	So thus he sorrowed till it was day, and he heard the birds sing; then was he somewhat comforted
	narrator	and departing from the cross on foot, he came into a wild forest, and to a high mountain
	narrator	and there he found a hermitage; and, kneeling before the hermit down upon both his knees, he cried for mercy for his wicked works
	narrator	and prayed him to hear his confession.
	narrator	But when he told his name, the hermit marveled to see him in so sore a case
	narrator	and said,
	nacien the hermit	Sir, ye ought to thank God more than any knight living, for He hath given thee more honor than any; yet for thy presumption
	nacien the hermit	while in deadly sin to come into the presence of His flesh and blood, He suffered thee neither to see nor follow it. Wherefore
	nacien the hermit	believe that all thy strength and manhood will avail thee little, when God is against thee.
	sir lancelot	Now know I well ye tell me truth.
	narrator	Then he confessed to him, and told him all his sins, and how he had for fourteen years served but Queen Guinevere only
	narrator	and forgotten God, and done great deeds of arms for her, and not for Heaven, and had little or nothing thanked God for the honor
	narrator	that he won.
	narrator	And then Sir Lancelot said,
	sir lancelot	I pray you counsel me.
	nacien the hermit	I will counsel thee: never more enter into that queen's company when ye can avoid it.
	narrator	So Sir Lancelot promised him.
	nacien the hermit	Look that your heart and your mouth accord, said the good man, "and ye shall have more honor and more nobleness than ever ye have
	nacien the hermit	had.
	narrator	Then were his arms and horse restored to him, and so he took his leave, and rode forth
	narrator	repenting greatly.
	narrator	Now Sir Percival had ridden back to the recluse, to learn who that knight was whom she had called the best in the world.
	narrator	And when he had told her that he was Sir Percival, she made passing great joy of him
	narrator	for she was his mother's sister, wherefore she opened her door to him, and made him good cheer.
	narrator	And on the morrow she told him of her kindred to him, and they both made great rejoicing.
	narrator	Then he asked her who that knight was, and she told him,
	sir percival's aunt	He it is who on Whit Sunday last was clad in the red robe, and bare the red arms; and he hath no peer
	sir percival's aunt	for he worketh all by miracle, and shall be never overcome by any earthly hands.
	sir percival	By my goodwill, I will never after these tidings have to do with Sir Galahad but in the way of kindness; and I would fain
	sir percival	learn where I may find him.
	sir percival's aunt	Fair nephew, ye must ride to the Castle of Goth, where he hath a cousin; by him ye may be lodged
	sir percival's aunt	and he will teach you the way to go; but if he can tell you no tidings
	sir percival's aunt	ride straight to the Castle of Carbonek, where the wounded king is lying, for there shall ye surely hear true tidings of him.
	narrator	So Sir Percival departed from his aunt, and rode till evensong time, when he was ware of a monastery closed round with walls and deep
	narrator	ditches
	narrator	where he knocked at the gate, and anon was let in.
	narrator	And there he had good cheer that night, and on the morrow heard mass.
	narrator	And beside the altar where the priest stood, was a rich bed of silk and cloth of gold; and on the bed there lay a
	narrator	man passing old
	narrator	having a crown of gold upon his head, and all his body was full of great wounds
	narrator	and his eyes almost wholly blind; and ever he held up his hands and said,
	king evelake	Sweet Lord, forget not me!
	narrator	Then Sir Percival asked one of the brethren who he was.
	brother	Sir, ye have heard of Joseph of Arimathea, how he was sent of Jesus Christ into this land to preach and teach the Christian faith.
	brother	Now
	brother	in the city of Sarras he converted a king named Evelake, and this is he. He came with Joseph to this land
	brother	and ever desired greatly to see the Sangreal; so on a time he came nigh thereto, and was struck almost blind. Then he cried out
	brother	for mercy
	brother	and said,
	king evelake	Fair Lord, I pray thee let me never die until a good knight of my blood achieve the Sangreal
	king evelake	and I may see and kiss him.
	narrator	When he had thus prayed, he heard a voice that said,
	voice	Thy prayers be heard and answered, for thou shalt not die till that knight kiss thee; and when he cometh shall thine eyes be opened
	voice	and thy wounds be healed.
	narrator	And now hath he lived here for three hundred winters in a holy life, and men say a certain knight of King Arthur's court shall
	narrator	shortly heal him.
	narrator	Thereat Sir Percival marveled greatly, for he well knew who that knight should be; and so, taking his leave of the monk
	narrator	departed.
	narrator	Then he rode on till noon, and came into a valley where he met twenty men-at-arms bearing a dead knight on a bier.
	narrator	And they cried to him,
	men-at-arms	Whence comest thou?
	sir percival	From King Arthur's court.
	men-at-arms	Slay him,
	narrator	And set upon him.
	sir percival	Slay him not,
	narrator	and rushed upon them; and, as fast as his horse could drive, he encountered with the foremost man
	narrator	and smote him down.
	narrator	Then, his spear being broken, he drew forth his sword and struck out on the right hand and on the left
	narrator	at each blow smiting down a man, till the remainder fled, and he pursued them.
	narrator	Then Sir Percival, knowing that it was Sir Galahad, would fain have overtaken him, but could not
	narrator	for his horse was slain.
	narrator	Yet followed he on foot as fast as he could go; and as he went there met him a yeoman riding on a palfrey
	narrator	and leading in his hand a great black steed.
	narrator	So Sir Percival prayed him to lend him the steed, that he might overtake Sir Galahad.
	yeoman	That can I not do, fair sir, for the horse is my master's, and should I lend it he would slay me.
	narrator	So he departed, and Sir Percival sat down beneath a tree in heaviness of heart.
	narrator	And as he sat, anon a knight went riding past on the black steed which the yeoman had led.
	narrator	And presently after came the yeoman back in haste, and asked Sir Percival if he had seen a knight riding his horse.
	sir percival	Yea
	yeoman	Alas, said the yeoman, he hath reft him from me by strength, and my master will slay me.
	narrator	Then he besought Sir Percival to take his hackney and follow, and get back his steed.
	narrator	So he rode quickly, and overtook the knight, and cried, "Knight, turn again."
	narrator	Whereat he turned and set his spear, and smote Sir Percival's hackney in the breast, so that it fell dead
	narrator	and then went on his way.
	narrator	Then cried Sir Percival after him, "Turn now, false knight, and fight with me on foot"; but he would not
	narrator	and rode out of sight.
	narrator	Then was Sir Percival passing wroth and heavy of heart, and lay down to rest beneath a tree
	narrator	and slept till midnight.
	narrator	When he awoke he saw a woman standing by him, who said to him right fiercely, "Sir Percival
	narrator	what doest thou here?"
	sir percival	I do neither good nor evil.
	woman	If thou wilt promise me, said she, to do my will whenever I shall ask thee, I will bring thee here a horse that will
	woman	bear thee wheresoever thou desirest.
	narrator	At that he was full glad, and promised as she asked.
	narrator	Then anon she came again, with a great black steed, strong and well appareled.
	narrator	So Sir Percival mounted, and rode through the clear moonlight, and within less than an hour had gone a four days' journey
	narrator	till he came to a rough water that roared; and his horse would have borne him into it
	narrator	but Sir Percival would not suffer him, yet could he scarce restrain him.
	narrator	And seeing the water so furious, he made the sign of the cross upon his forehead, whereat the horse suddenly shook him off
	narrator	and with a terrible sound leaped into the water and disappeared, the waves all burning up in flames around him.
	narrator	Then Sir Percival knew it was a fiend which had brought him the horse; so he commended himself to God
	narrator	and prayed that he might escape temptations, and continued in prayer till it was day.
	narrator	Then he saw that he was on a wild mountain, nigh surrounded on all sides by the sea
	narrator	and filled with wild beasts; and going on into a valley, he saw a serpent carrying a young lion by the neck.
	narrator	With that came another lion, crying and roaring after the serpent, and anon overtook him, and began to battle with him.
	narrator	And Sir Percival helped the lion, and drew his sword, and gave the serpent such a stroke that it fell dead.
	narrator	Thereat the lion fawned upon him like a dog, licking his hands, and crouching at his feet
	narrator	and at night lay down by him and slept at his side.
	narrator	And at noon the next day Sir Percival saw a ship come sailing before a strong wind upon the sea towards him
	narrator	and he rose and went towards it.
	narrator	And when it came to shore, he found it covered with white samite, and on the deck there stood an old man dressed in priest's
	narrator	robes
	narrator	who said,
	white knight	God be with you, fair sir; whence come ye?
	sir percival	I am a knight of King Arthur's court, and follow the quest of the Sangreal; but here have I lost myself in this wilderness.
	white knight	Fear nothing, for I have come from a strange country to comfort thee.
	narrator	Then he told Sir Percival it was a fiend of hell upon which he had ridden to the sea
	narrator	and that the lion, whom he had delivered from the serpent, meant the Church.
	narrator	And Sir Percival rejoiced at these tidings, and entered into the ship, which presently sailed from the shore into the sea.
	narrator	Now when Sir Bors rode forth from Camelot to seek the Sangreal, anon he met a holy man riding on an ass
	narrator	and courteously saluted him.
	holy man	Who are ye, son?
	sir bors	I am a knight, in quest of the Sangreal, and would fain have thy counsel, for he shall have much earthly honor who may bring
	sir bors	it to a favorable end.
	holy man	That is truth, for he shall be the best knight of the world; yet know that none shall gain it save by sinless living.
	narrator	So they rode to his hermitage together, and there he prayed Sir Bors to abide that night
	narrator	and anon they went into the chapel, and Sir Bors was confessed.
	narrator	And they eat bread and drank water together.
	holy man	Now, I pray thee eat no other food till thou sit at the table where the Sangreal shall be.
	sir bors	Therto Sir Bors agreed.
	holy man	Also, it were wise that ye should wear a sackcloth garment next your skin, for penance
	narrator	and in this also did Sir Bors as he was counseled.
	narrator	And afterwards he armed himself and took his leave.
	narrator	Then rode he onwards all that day, and as he rode he saw a passing great bird sit in an old dry tree
	narrator	whereon no leaves were left; and many little birds lay round the great one, nigh dead with hunger.
	narrator	Then did the big bird smite himself with his own bill, and bled till he died amongst his little ones
	narrator	and they recovered life in drinking up his blood.
	narrator	When Sir Bors saw this he knew it was a token, and rode on full of thought.
	narrator	And about eventide he came to a tower, whereto he prayed admission, and he was received gladly by the lady of the castle.
	narrator	But when a supper of many meats and dainties was set before him, he remembered his vow
	narrator	and bade a squire to bring him water, and therein he dipped his bread, and ate.
	lady of the castle	Sir Bors, I fear ye like not my meat.
	sir bors	Yea, truly, God thank thee, madam; but I may eat no other meat this day.
	narrator	After supper came a squire, and said, "Madam, bethink thee to provide a champion for thee to-morrow for the tourney
	narrator	or else shall thy sister have thy castle."
	narrator	At that the lady wept, and made great sorrow.
	sir bors	Be comforted; to-morrow I will fight for thee
	narrator	whereat she rejoiced not a little, and sent word to Sir Pridan that she was provided and ready.
	narrator	And Sir Bors lay on the floor, and in no bed, nor ever would do otherwise till he had achieved his quest.
	narrator	On the morrow he arose and clothed himself, and went into the chapel, where the lady met him
	narrator	and they heard mass together.
	narrator	Anon he called for his armor, and went with a goodly company of knights to the battle.
	narrator	And the lady prayed him to refresh himself ere he should fight, but he refused to break his fast until the tournament were done.
	narrator	So they all rode together to the lists, and there they saw the lady's eldest sister, and her husband
	narrator	Sir Pridan le Noir.
	narrator	And a cry was made by the heralds that, whichever should win, his lady should have all the other's lands.
	narrator	Then the two knights departed asunder a little space, and came together with such force, that both their spears were shivered
	narrator	and their shields and hauberks pierced through; and both fell to the ground sorely wounded, with their horses under them.
	narrator	But swiftly they arose, and drew their swords, and smote each other on the head with many great and heavy blows
	narrator	till the blood ran down their bodies; and Sir Pridan was a full good knight, so that Sir Bors had more ado than he had
	narrator	thought for to overcome him.
	narrator	But at last Sir Pridan grew a little faint; that instantly perceived Sir Bors, and rushed upon him the more vehemently
	narrator	and smote him fiercely, till he rent off his helm, and then gave him great strokes upon his visage with the flat of his sword
	narrator	and bade him yield or be slain.
	sir pridan le noir	For God's sake slay me not, and I will never war against thy lady more.
	narrator	So Sir Bors let him go, and his wife fled away with all her knights.
	narrator	Then all those who had held lands of the lady of the tower came and did homage to her again
	narrator	and swore fealty.
	narrator	And when the country was at peace Sir Bors departed, and rode forth into a forest until it was midday
	narrator	and there befell him a marvelous adventure.
	narrator	For at a place where two ways parted, there met him two knights, bearing Sir Lionel, his brother
	narrator	all naked, bound on a horse, and as they rode, they beat him sorely with thorns, so that the blood trailed down in more than
	narrator	a hundred places from his body; but for all this he uttered no word or groan
	narrator	so great he was of heart.
	narrator	As soon as Sir Bors knew his brother, he put his spear in rest to run and rescue him; but in the same moment heard
	narrator	a woman's voice cry close beside him in the wood
	narrator	"St. Mary, succor thy maid"; and, looking round, he saw a damsel whom a felon knight dragged after him into the thickets; and she
	narrator	perceiving him, cried piteously for help, and adjured him to deliver her as he was a sworn knight.
	narrator	Then was Sir Bors sore troubled, and knew not what to do, for he thought within himself
	narrator	"If I let my brother be, he will be murdered; but if I help not the maid
	narrator	she is shamed forever, and my vow compelleth me to set her free; wherefore must I first help her
	narrator	and trust my brother unto God."
	sir bors	Sir knight, lay your hand off that maid, or else ye be but dead.
	narrator	At that the knight set down the maid, and dropped his shield, and drew forth his sword against Sir Bors
	narrator	who ran at him, and smote him through both shield and shoulder, and threw him to the earth; and when he pulled his spear forth
	narrator	the knight swooned.
	narrator	Then the maid thanked Sir Bors heartily, and he set her on the knight's horse, and brought her to her men-at-arms
	narrator	who presently came riding after her.
	narrator	And they made much joy, and besought him to come to her father, a great lord, and he should be right welcome.
	sir bors	Truly, I may not at this time, for I have a great adventure yet to do
	narrator	and commending them to God, he departed in great haste to find his brother.
	narrator	So he rode, seeking him by the track of the horses a great while.
	narrator	Anon he met a seeming holy man riding upon a strong black horse, and asked him, had he seen pass by that way a knight
	narrator	led bound and beaten with thorns by two others.
	narrator	'Yea, truly, such an one I saw,' said the man; 'but he is dead, and lo! his body is hard by in a bush.'
	narrator	Then he showed him a newly slain body lying in a thick bush, which seemed indeed to be Sir Lionel.
	narrator	Then made Sir Bors such mourning and sorrow that by-and-by he fell into a swoon upon the ground.
	narrator	And when he came to himself again, he took the body in his arms and put it on his horse's saddle
	narrator	and bore it to a chapel hard by, and would have buried it.
	narrator	But when he made the sign of the cross, he heard a full great noise and cry as though all the fiends of hell had
	narrator	been about him
	narrator	and suddenly the body and the chapel and the old man vanished all away.
	narrator	Then he knew that it was the devil who had thus beguiled him, and that his brother yet lived.
	narrator	Then held he up his hands to heaven, and thanked God for his own escape from hurt
	narrator	and rode onwards; and anon, as he passed by an hermitage in a forest, he saw his brother sitting armed by the door.
	sir bors	Fair brother, when came ye hither?
	sir lionel	What vain words be these, when for you I might have been slain? Did ye not see me bound and led away to death
	sir lionel	and left me in that peril to go succoring a gentlewoman, the like whereof no brother ever yet hath done? Now
	sir lionel	for thy false misdeed, I do defy thee, and ensure thee speedy death.
	sir bors	Fair brother, remember the love that should be between us twain.
	sir lionel	Sir Bors, keep thee from me, for I shall do to thee as a felon and a traitor; therefore
	sir lionel	start upon thy horse, for if thou wilt not, I will run upon thee as thou standest.
	narrator	But for all his words Sir Bors would not defend himself against his brother.
	narrator	And anon the fiend stirred up Sir Lionel to such rage, that he rushed over him and overthrew him with his horse's hoofs
	narrator	so that he lay swooning on the ground.
	narrator	Then would he have rent off his helm and slain him, but the hermit of that place ran out
	narrator	and prayed him to forbear, and shielded Sir Bors with his body.
	sir lionel	Now, God so help me, sir priest, but I shall slay thee else thou depart, and him too after thee.
	narrator	And when the good man utterly refused to leave Sir Bors, he smote him on the head until he died
	narrator	and then he took his brother by the helm and unlaced it, to have stricken off his head
	narrator	and so he would have done, but suddenly was pulled off backwards by a knight of the Round Table
	narrator	who, by the will of Heaven, was passing by that place--Sir Colgrevance by name.
	sir colgrevance	Sir Lionel, will ye slay your brother, one of the best knights of all the world? That ought no man to suffer.
	sir lionel	Why, will ye hinder me and meddle in this strife? beware, lest I shall slay both thee and him.
	narrator	And when Sir Colgrevance refused to let them be, Sir Lionel defied him, and gave him a great stroke through the helmet
	narrator	whereat Sir Colgrevance drew his sword, and smote again right manfully.
	narrator	And so long they fought together that Sir Bors awoke from his swoon, and tried to rise and part them
	narrator	but had no strength to stand upon his feet.
	narrator	Anon Sir Colgrevance saw him, and cried out to him for help, for now Sir Lionel had nigh defeated him.
	narrator	When Sir Bors heard that, he struggled to his feet, and put his helmet on, and took his sword.
	narrator	But before he could come to him, Sir Lionel had smitten off Sir Colgrevance's helm, and thrown him to the earth and slain him.
	narrator	Then turned he to his brother as a man possessed by fiends, and gave him such a stroke as bent him nearly double.
	sir bors	But Sir Bors prayed him for God's sake to quit that battle, "For if it befell us that we either slew the other we should
	sir bors	die for care of that sin.
	sir lionel	Never will I spare thee if I master thee,
	narrator	cried out Sir Lionel
	narrator	Then Sir Bors drew his sword all weeping, and said, "Now, God have mercy on me, though I defend my life against my brother"
	narrator	with that he lifted up his sword to strike, but suddenly he heard a mighty voice, "Put up thy sword
	narrator	Sir Bors, and flee, or thou shalt surely slay him."
	narrator	And then there fell upon them both a fiery cloud, which flamed and burned their shields, and they fell to the earth in sore dread.
	narrator	Anon Sir Bors rose to his feet, and saw that Sir Lionel had taken no harm.
	narrator	Then came the voice again, and said, "Sir Bors, go hence and leave thy brother, and ride thou forward to the sea
	narrator	for there Sir Percival abideth thee."
	narrator	Then he said to his brother, "Brother, forgive me all my trespass against thee."
	sir lionel	God forgive it thee, as I do.
	narrator	Then he departed and rode to the sea, and on the strand he found a ship all covered with white samite
	narrator	and as soon as he had entered thereinto, it put forth from the shore.
	narrator	And in the midst of the ship there stood an armed knight, whom he knew to be Sir Percival.
	narrator	Then they rejoiced greatly over each other, and said, "We lack nothing now but the good knight Sir Galahad."
	narrator	Now when Sir Galahad had rescued Sir Percival from the twenty knights he rode into a vast forest.
	narrator	And after many days it befell that he came to a castle whereat was a tournament.
	narrator	And the knights of the castle were put to the worse; which when he saw, he set his spear in rest and ran to help
	narrator	them
	narrator	and smote down many of their adversaries.
	narrator	And as it chanced, Sir Gawain was amongst the stranger knights, and when he saw the white shield with the red cross
	narrator	he knew it was Sir Galahad, and proffered to joust with him.
	narrator	So they encountered, and having broken their spears, they drew their swords, and Sir Galahad smote Sir Gawain so sorely on the helm that he
	narrator	clove it through
	narrator	and struck on slanting to the earth, carving the horse's shoulder in twain, and Sir Gawain fell to the earth.
	narrator	Then Sir Galahad beat back all who warred against the castle, yet would he not wait for thanks
	narrator	but rode away that no man might know him.
	narrator	And he rested that night at a hermitage, and when he was asleep, he heard a knocking at the door.
	narrator	So he rose, and found a damsel there, who said, "Sir Galahad, I will that ye arm you
	narrator	and mount upon your horse and follow me, for I will show you within these three days the highest adventure that ever any knight saw."
	narrator	Anon Sir Galahad armed him, and took his horse, and commended himself to God, and bade the gentlewoman go
	narrator	and he would follow where she liked.
	narrator	So they rode onwards to the sea as fast as their horses might gallop, and at night they came to a castle in a valley
	narrator	inclosed by running water, and by strong and high walls, whereinto they entered and had great cheer
	narrator	for the lady of the castle was the damsel's mistress.
	narrator	And when he was unarmed, the damsel said to her lady, "Madam, shall we abide here this night?"
	narrator	Nay,
	she	but only till he hath dined and slept a little.
	narrator	So he ate and slept a while, till the maid called him, and armed him by torchlight; and when he had saluted the lady of
	narrator	the castle
	narrator	the damsel and Sir Galahad rode on.
	narrator	Anon they came to the seaside, and lo! the ship, wherein were Sir Percival and Sir Bors
	narrator	abode by the shore.
	narrator	Then they cried, "Welcome, Sir Galahad, for we have awaited thee long."
	narrator	Then they rejoiced to see each other, and told of all their adventures and temptations.
	narrator	And the damsel went into the ship with them, and spake to Sir Percival: "Sir Percival, know ye not who I am?"
	narrator	And he replied, "Nay, certainly, I know thee not."
	narrator	Then said she, "I am thy sister, the daughter of King Pellinore, and am sent to help thee and these knights
	narrator	thy fellows, to achieve the quest which ye all follow."
	narrator	So Sir Percival rejoiced to see his sister, and they departed from the shore.
	narrator	And after a while they came upon a whirlpool, where their ship could not live.
	narrator	Then saw they another greater ship hard by and went towards it, but saw neither man nor woman therein.
	narrator	And on the end of it these words were written, "Thou who shalt enter me, beware that thou be in steadfast belief
	narrator	for I am Faith; and if thou doubtest, I cannot help thee." Then were they all adread
	narrator	but, commending themselves to God, they entered in.
	narrator	As soon as they were on board they saw a fair bed, whereon lay a crown of silk
	narrator	and at the foot was a fair and rich sword drawn from its scabbard half a foot and more.
	narrator	The pommel was of precious stones of many colors, every color having a different virtue, and the scales of the haft were of two ribs
	narrator	of different beasts.
	narrator	The one was bone of a serpent from Calidone forest, named the serpent of the fiend; and its virtue saveth all men who hold it
	narrator	from weariness.
	narrator	The other was of a fish that haunteth the floods of Euphrates, named Ertanax; and its virtue causeth whoever holdeth it to forget all other
	narrator	things
	narrator	whether of joy or pain, save the thing he seeth before him.
	narrator	"In the name of God," said Sir Percival, "I shall assay to handle this sword"; and set his hand to it
	narrator	but could not grasp it.
	narrator	"By my faith," said he, "now have I failed."
	narrator	Sir Bors set his hand to it, and failed also.
	narrator	Then came Sir Galahad, and saw these letters written red as blood, "None shall draw me forth save the hardiest of all men; but he
	narrator	that draweth me shall never be shamed or wounded to death." "By my faith," said Sir Galahad
	narrator	"I would draw it forth, but dare not try."
	narrator	"Ye may try safely," said the gentlewoman, Sir Percival's sister, "for be ye well assured the drawing of this sword is forbid to all but
	narrator	you. For this was the sword of David
	narrator	King of Israel, and Solomon his son made for it this marvelous pommel and this wondrous sheath
	narrator	and laid it on this bed till thou shouldest come and take it up; and though before thee some have dared to raise it
	narrator	yet have they all been maimed or wounded for their daring."
	narrator	"Where," said Sir Galahad, "shall we find a girdle for it?"
	narrator	"Fair sir," said she, "dismay you not"; and therewith took from out a box a girdle, nobly wrought with golden thread
	narrator	set full of precious stones and with a rich gold buckle.
	narrator	"This girdle, lords," said she, "is made for the most part of mine own hair, which, while I was yet in the world
	narrator	I loved full well; but when I knew that this adventure was ordained me, I cut off and wove as ye now see."
	narrator	Then they all prayed Sir Galahad to take the sword, and so anon he gripped it in his fingers; and the maiden girt it round
	narrator	his waist
	narrator	saying, "Now reck I not though I die, for I have made thee the worthiest knight of all the world."
	narrator	"Fair damsel," said Sir Galahad, "ye have done so much that I shall be your knight all the days of my life."
	narrator	Then the ship sailed a great way on the sea, and brought them to land near the Castle of Carteloise.
	narrator	When they were landed came a squire and asked them, "Be ye of King Arthur's court?"
	narrator	"We are," said they.
	narrator	"In an evil hour are ye come," said he, and went back swiftly to the castle.
	narrator	Within a while they heard a great horn blow, and saw a multitude of well-armed knights come forth
	narrator	who bade them yield or die.
	narrator	At that they ran together, and Sir Percival smote one to the earth and mounted his horse
	narrator	and so likewise did Sir Bors and Sir Galahad, and soon had they routed all their enemies and alighted on foot
	narrator	and with their swords slew them downright, and entered into the castle.
	narrator	Then came there forth a priest, to whom Sir Galahad kneeled and said, "In sooth, good father
	narrator	I repent me of this slaughter; but we were first assailed, or else it had not been."
	narrator	"Repent ye not," said the good man, "for if ye lived as long as the world lasted ye could do no better deed
	narrator	for these were all the felon sons of a good knight, Earl Hernox, whom they have thrown into a dungeon
	narrator	and in his name have slain priests and clerks, and beat down chapels far and near."
	narrator	Then Sir Galahad prayed the priest to bring him to the earl; who, when he saw Sir Galahad
	narrator	cried out, "Long have I waited for thy coming, and now I pray thee hold me in thine arms that I may die in peace."
	narrator	And therewith, when Sir Galahad had taken him in his arms, his soul departed from his body.
	narrator	Then came a voice in the hearing of them all, "Depart now, Sir Galahad, and go quickly to the maimed king
	narrator	for he hath long abided to receive health from thy hand."
	narrator	So the three knights departed, and Sir Percival's sister with them, and came to a vast forest
	narrator	and saw before them a white hart, exceeding fair, led by four lions; and marveling greatly at that sight
	narrator	they followed.
	narrator	Anon they came to a hermitage and a chapel, whereunto the hart entered, and the lions with it.
	narrator	Then a priest offered mass, and presently they saw the hart change into the figure of a man
	narrator	most sweet and comely to behold; and the four lions also changed and became a man, an eagle
	narrator	a lion, and an ox.
	narrator	And suddenly all those five figures vanished without sound.
	narrator	Then the knights marveled greatly, and fell upon their knees, and when they rose they prayed the priest to tell them what that sight might
	narrator	mean.
	priest	What saw ye, sirs? for I saw nothing.
	narrator	Then they told him.
	priest	Ah, lords! ye are full welcome; now know I well ye be the knights who shall achieve the Sangreal
	priest	for unto them alone such mysteries are revealed. The hart ye saw is One above all men
	priest	white and without blemish, and the four lions with Him are the four evangelists.
	narrator	When they heard that they heartily rejoiced, and thanking the priest, departed.
	narrator	Anon, as they passed by a certain castle, an armed knight suddenly came after them, and cried out to the damsel
	narrator	"By the holy cross, ye shall not go till ye have yielded to the custom of the castle."
	sir percival	Let her go, for a maiden, wheresoever she cometh, is free.
	white knight	Whatever maiden passeth here, must give a dishful of her blood from her right arm.
	sir galahad	It is a foul and shameful custom, cried Sir Galahad and both his fellows, "and sooner will we die than let this maiden yield thereto.
	white knight	Then shall ye die," replied the knight, and as he spake there came out from a gate hard by
	white knight	ten or twelve more, and encountered with them, running upon them vehemently with a great cry. But the three knights withstood them
	white knight	and set their hands to their swords, and beat them down and slew them.
	narrator	At that came forth a company of threescore knights, all armed.
	narrator	"Fair lords," said Sir Galahad, "have mercy on yourselves and keep from us."
	knights	Nay, fair lords," they answered, "rather be advised by us, and yield ye to our custom.
	sir galahad	It is an idle word," said Galahad, "in vain ye speak it.
	knights	Well," they said, "will ye die?
	sir galahad	We be not come thereto as yet," replied Sir Galahad.
	narrator	Then did they fall upon each other, and Sir Galahad drew forth his sword, and smote on the right hand and on the left
	narrator	and slew so mightily that all who saw him thought he was a monster and no earthly man.
	narrator	And both his comrades helped him well, and so they held the field against that multitude till it was night.
	narrator	Then came a good knight forward from the enemy and said, "Fair knights, abide with us to-night and be right welcome; by the faith of
	narrator	our bodies as we are true knights
	narrator	to-morrow ye shall rise unharmed, and meanwhile maybe ye will, of your own accord, accept the custom of the castle when ye know it better."
	narrator	So they entered and alighted and made great cheer.
	narrator	Anon, they asked them whence that custom came.
	knights	The lady of this castle is a leper," said they, "and can be no way cured save by the blood of a pure virgin and
	knights	a king's daughter; therefore to save her life are we her servants bound to stay every maid that passeth by
	knights	and try if her blood may not cure our mistress.
	damsel of the lake	Take ye of my blood as much as ye will, if it may avail your lady.
	narrator	And though the three knights urged her not to put her life in that great peril, she replied
	narrator	"If I die to heal another's body, I shall get health to my soul," and would not be persuaded to refuse.
	narrator	So on the morrow she was brought to the sick lady, and her arm was bared, and a vein thereof was opened
	narrator	and the dish filled with her blood.
	narrator	Then the sick lady was anointed therewith, and anon she was whole of her malady.
	narrator	With that Sir Percival's sister lifted up her hand and blessed her, saying, "Madam, I am come to my death to make you whole; for
	narrator	God's love pray for me"; and thus saying she fell down in a swoon.
	narrator	Then Sir Galahad, Sir Percival, and Sir Bors started to lift her up and staunch her blood
	narrator	but she had lost too much to live.
	narrator	So when she came to herself she said to Sir Percival, "Fair brother, I must die for the healing of this lady
	narrator	and now, I pray thee, bury me not here, but when I am dead put me in a boat at the next haven and let
	narrator	me float at venture on the sea. And when ye come to the city of Sarras
	narrator	to achieve the Sangreal, shall ye find me waiting by a tower, and there I pray thee bury me
	narrator	for there shall Sir Galahad and ye also be laid." Thus having said, she died.
	narrator	Then Sir Percival wrote all the story of her life and put it in her right hand
	narrator	and so laid her in a barge and covered it with silk.
	narrator	And the wind arising drove the barge from land, and all the knights stood watching it till it was out of sight.
	narrator	Anon they returned to the castle, and forthwith fell a sudden tempest of thunder and lightning and rain
	narrator	as if the earth were broken up: and half the castle was thrown down.
	narrator	Then came a voice to the three knights which said, "Depart ye now asunder till ye meet again where the maimed king is lying." So
	narrator	they parted and rode divers ways.
	narrator	Now after Sir Lancelot had left the hermit, he rode a long while till he knew not whither to turn
	narrator	and so he lay down to sleep, if haply he might dream whither to go.
	narrator	And in his sleep a vision came to him saying, "Lancelot, rise up and take thine armor
	narrator	and enter the first ship that thou shalt find."
	narrator	When he awoke he obeyed the vision, and rode till he came to the sea-shore, and found there a ship without sails or oars
	narrator	and as soon as he was in it he smelt the sweetest savor he had ever known
	narrator	and seemed filled with all things he could think of or desire.
	narrator	And looking round he saw a fair bed, and thereon a gentlewoman lying dead, who was Sir Percival's sister.
	narrator	And as Sir Lancelot looked on her he spied the writing in her right hand, and, taking it
	narrator	he read therein her story.
	narrator	And more than a month thereafter he abode in that ship and was nourished by the grace of Heaven
	narrator	as Israel was fed with manna in the desert.
	narrator	And on a certain night he went ashore to pass the time, for he was somewhat weary
	narrator	and, listening, he heard a horse come towards him, from which a knight alighted and went up into the ship
	white knight	Fair sir, ye be right welcome to mine eyes, for I am thy son Galahad, and long time I have sought for thee.
	narrator	With that he kneeled and asked his blessing, and took off his helm and kissed him, and the great joy there was between them no
	narrator	tongue can tell.
	narrator	Then for half a year they dwelt together in the ship, and served God night and day with all their powers
	narrator	and went to many unknown islands, where none but wild beasts haunted, and there found many strange and perilous adventures.
	narrator	And upon a time they came to the edge of a forest, before a cross of stone
	narrator	and saw a knight armed all in white, leading a white horse.
	white knight	Then the knight saluted them, and said to Galahad, "Ye have been long time enough with your father; now
	white knight	therefore, leave him and ride this horse till ye achieve the Holy Quest.
	narrator	Then went Sir Galahad to his father and kissed him full courteously, and said, "Fair father, I know not when I shall see thee again."
	narrator	And as he took his horse a voice spake in their hearing, "Ye shall meet no more in this life."
	sir lancelot	Now, my son, Sir Galahad, since we must so part and see each other never more, I pray the High Father of Heaven to preserve
	sir lancelot	both you and me.
	narrator	Then they bade farewell, and Sir Galahad entered the forest, and Sir Lancelot returned to the ship
	narrator	and the wind rose and drove him more than a month through the sea, whereby he slept but little
	narrator	yet ever prayed that he might see the Sangreal.
	narrator	So it befell upon a certain midnight, the moon shining clear, he came before a fair and rich castle
	narrator	whereof the postern gate was open towards the sea, having no keeper save two lions in the entry.
	narrator	Anon Sir Lancelot heard a voice:
	narrator	"Leave now thy ship and go within the castle, and thou shalt see a part of thy desire."
	narrator	Then he armed and went towards the gate, and coming to the lions he drew out his sword
	narrator	but suddenly a dwarf rushed out and smote him on the arm, so that he dropt his sword
	narrator	and heard again the voice,
	narrator	"Oh, man of evil faith, and poor belief, wherefore trustest thou thine arms above thy Maker?"
	narrator	Then he put up his sword and signed the cross upon his forehead, and so passed by the lions without hurt.
	narrator	And going in, he found a chamber with the door shut, which in vain he tried to open.
	narrator	And listening thereat he heard a voice within, which sang so sweetly that it seemed no earthly thing
	narrator	'Joy and honor be to the Father of Heaven!'
	narrator	Then he kneeled down at the door, for he knew well the Sangreal was there within.
	narrator	Anon the door was opened without hands, and forthwith came thereout so great a splendor as if all the torches of the world had been
	narrator	alight together.
	narrator	But when he would have entered in, a voice forbade him; wherefore he drew back, and looked
	narrator	standing upon the threshold of the door.
	narrator	And there he saw a table of silver, and the holy vessel covered with red samite, and many angels round it holding burning candles and
	narrator	a cross and all the ornaments of the altar.
	narrator	Then a priest stood up and offered mass, and when he took the vessel up, he seemed to sink beneath that burden.
	sir lancelot	O Father, take it not for sin that I go in to help the priest, who hath much need thereof.
	narrator	So saying, he went in, but when he came towards the table he felt a breath of fire which issued out therefrom and smote him
	narrator	to the ground
	narrator	so that he had no power to rise.
	narrator	Then felt he many hands about him, which took him up and laid him down outside the chapel door.
	narrator	There lay he in a swoon all through that night, and on the morrow certain people found him senseless
	narrator	and bore him to an inner chamber and laid him on a bed.
	narrator	And there he rested, living, but moving no limbs, twenty-four days and nights.
	narrator	On the twenty-fifth day he opened his eyes and saw those standing round, and said, "Why have ye waked me? for I have seen marvels
	narrator	that no tongue can tell
	narrator	and more than any heart can think."
	sir lancelot	Then he asked where he was, and they told him, "In the Castle of Carbonek.
	sir lancelot	Tell your lord, King Pelles, said he, "that I am Sir Lancelot.
	narrator	At that they marveled greatly, and told their lord it was Sir Lancelot who had lain there so long.
	narrator	Then was King Pelles wondrous glad and went to see him, and prayed him to abide there for a season.
	sir lancelot	But Sir Lancelot said, "I know well that I have now seen as much as mine eyes may behold of the Sangreal; wherefore I will
	sir lancelot	return to my own country.
	sir lancelot	So he took leave of King Pelles, and departed towards Logris.
	narrator	Now after Sir Galahad had parted from Sir Lancelot, he rode many days, till he came to the monastery where the blind King Evelake lay
	narrator	whom Sir Percival had seen.
	narrator	And on the morrow, when he had heard mass, Sir Galahad desired to see the king, who cried out
	narrator	"Welcome, Sir Galahad, servant of the Lord! long have I abided thy coming. Take me now in thine arms
	narrator	that I may die in peace."
	narrator	At that Sir Galahad embraced him; and when he had so done the king's eyes were opened
	narrator	and he said, "Fair Lord Jesus, suffer me now to come to Thee"; and anon his soul departed.
	narrator	Then they buried him royally, as a king should be; and Sir Galahad went on his way.
	narrator	Within a while he came to a chapel in a forest, in the crypt whereof he saw a tomb which always blazed and burnt.
	narrator	And asking the brethren what that might mean, they told him,
	narrator	Joseph of Arimathea's son did found this monastery, and one who wronged him hath lain here these three hundred and fifty years and burneth evermore
	narrator	until that perfect knight who shall achieve the Sangreal doth quench the fire.
	narrator	Then said he, "I pray ye bring me to the tomb."
	narrator	And when he touched the place immediately the fire was quenched, and a voice came from the grave and cried
	narrator	Thanks be to God, who now hath purged me of my sin, and draweth me from earthly pains into the joys of paradise.
	narrator	Then Sir Galahad took the body in his arms and bore it to the abbey, and on the morrow put it in the earth before
	narrator	the high altar.
	narrator	Anon he departed from thence and rode five days in a great forest; and after that he met Sir Percival
	narrator	and a little further on Sir Bors.
	narrator	When they had told each other their adventures, they rode together to the Castle of Carbonek: and there King Pelles gave them hearty welcome
	narrator	for he knew they should achieve the Holy Quest.
	narrator	As soon as they were come into the castle, a voice cried in the midst of the chamber
	narrator	"Let them who ought not now to sit at the table of the Lord rise and depart hence!" Then all
	narrator	save those three knights, departed.
	narrator	Anon they saw other knights come in with haste at the hall doors and take their harness off
	narrator	who said to Sir Galahad, "Sir, we have tried sore to be with you at this table."
	speaker	Ye be welcome," said he, "but whence are ye?
	narrator	So three of them said they were from Gaul; and three from Ireland; and three from Denmark.
	narrator	Then came forth the likeness of a bishop, with a cross in his hand, and four angels stood by him
	narrator	and a table of silver was before them, whereon was set the vessel of the Sangreal.
	narrator	Then came forth other angels also--two bearing burning candles, and the third a towel, and the fourth a spear which bled marvelously
	narrator	the drops wherefrom fell into a box he held in his left hand.
	narrator	Anon the bishop took the wafer up to consecrate it, and at the lifting up, they saw the figure of a Child
	narrator	whose visage was as bright as any fire, which smote itself into the midst of the wafer and vanished
	narrator	so that all saw the flesh made bread.
	narrator	Thereat the bishop went to Galahad and kissed him, and bade him go and kiss his fellows; and said
	narrator	"Now, servants of the Lord, prepare for food such as none ever yet were fed with since the world began."
	narrator	With that he vanished, and the knights were filled with a great dread and prayed devoutly.
	narrator	Then saw they come forth from the holy vessel the vision of a man bleeding all openly
	narrator	whom they knew well by the tokens of His passion for the Lord Himself.
	narrator	At that they fell upon their faces and were dumb.
	narrator	Anon he brought the Holy Grail to them and spake high words of comfort, and, when they drank therefrom
	narrator	the taste thereof was sweeter than any tongue could tell or heart desire.
	narrator	Then a voice said to Galahad, "Son, with this blood which drippeth from the spear anoint thou the maimed king and heal him. And when
	narrator	thou hast this done
	narrator	depart hence with thy brethren in a ship that ye shall find, and go to the city of Sarras. And bear with thee the holy
	narrator	vessel
	narrator	for it shall no more be seen in the realm of Logris."
	narrator	At that Sir Galahad walked to the bleeding spear, and therefrom anointing his fingers went out straightway to the maimed King Pelles
	narrator	and touched his wound.
	narrator	Then suddenly he uprose from his bed as whole a man as ever he was, and praised God passing thankfully with all his heart.
	narrator	Then Sir Galahad, Sir Bors, and Sir Percival departed as they had been told; and when they had ridden three days they came to the
	narrator	sea-shore
	narrator	and found the ship awaiting them.
	narrator	Therein they entered, and saw in the midst the silver table and the vessel of the Sangreal
	narrator	covered with red samite.
	narrator	Then were they passing glad, and made great reverence thereto.
	narrator	And Sir Galahad prayed that now he might leave the world and pass to God.
	narrator	And presently, the while he prayed, a voice said to him, "Galahad, thy prayer is heard, and when thou asketh the death of the body
	narrator	thou shalt have it
	narrator	and find the life of thy soul."
	narrator	But while they prayed and slept the ship sailed on, and when they woke they saw the city of Sarras before them
	narrator	and the other ship wherein was Sir Percival's sister.
	narrator	Then the three knights took up the holy table and the Sangreal and went into the city; and there
	narrator	in a chapel, they buried Sir Percival's sister right solemnly.
	narrator	Now at the gate of the town they saw an old cripple sitting, whom Sir Galahad called to help them bear their weight.
	old cripple	Truly," said the old man, "it is ten years since I have gone a step without these crutches.
	sir galahad	Care ye not," said Sir Galahad, "rise now and show goodwill.
	narrator	So he assayed to move, and found his limbs as strong as any man's might be, and running to the table helped to carry it.
	narrator	Anon there rose a rumor in the city that a cripple had been healed by certain marvelous strange knights.
	narrator	But the king, named Estouranse, who was a heathen tyrant, when he heard thereof took Sir Galahad and his fellows
	narrator	and put them in prison in a deep hole.
	narrator	Therein they abode a great while, but ever the Sangreal was with them and fed them with marvelous sweet food
	narrator	so that they fainted not, but had all joy and comfort they could wish.
	narrator	At the year's end the king fell sick and felt that he should die.
	narrator	Then sent he for the three knights, and when they came before him prayed their mercy for his trespasses against them.
	narrator	So they forgave him gladly, and anon he died.
	narrator	Then the chief men of the city took counsel together who should be king in his stead
	narrator	and as they talked, a voice cried in their midst, "Choose ye the youngest of the three knights King Estouranse cast into prison for your
	narrator	king." At that they sought Sir Galahad and made him king with the assent of all the city
	narrator	and else they would have slain him.
	narrator	But within a twelve-month came to him, upon a certain day, as he prayed before the Sangreal
	narrator	a man in likeness of a bishop, with a great company of angels round about him, who offered mass
	narrator	and afterwards called to Sir Galahad, "Come forth, thou servant of the Lord, for the time hath come thou hast desired so long."
	sir galahad	Now, blessed Lord! would I no longer live if it might please Thee.
	narrator	Anon the bishop gave him the sacrament, and when he had received it with unspeakable gladness, he said
	narrator	"Who art thou, father?"
	joseph of arimathea	I am Joseph of Arimathea," answered he, "whom our Lord hath sent to bear thee fellowship.
	narrator	When he heard that, Sir Galahad went to Sir Percival and Sir Bors and kissed them and commended them to God
	narrator	saying
	sir galahad	Salute for me Sir Lancelot, my father, and bid them remember this unstable world.
	narrator	Therewith he kneeled down and prayed, and suddenly his soul departed, and a multitude of angels bare it up to heaven.
	narrator	Then came a hand from heaven and took the vessel and the spear and bare them out of sight.
	narrator	Since then was never man so hardy as to say that he had seen the Sangreal.
	narrator	And after all these things, Sir Percival put off his armor and betook him to an hermitage
	narrator	and within a little while passed out of this world.
	narrator	And Sir Bors, when he had buried him beside his sister, returned, weeping sore for the loss of his two brethren
	narrator	to King Arthur, at Camelot.
