	narrator	And now again the second time there came ambassadors from Lucius Tiberius, Emperor of Rome, demanding, under pain of war
	narrator	tribute and homage from King Arthur, and the restoration of all Gaul, which he had conquered from the tribune Flollo.
	narrator	When they had delivered their message, the king bade them withdraw while he consulted with his knights and barons what reply to send.
	narrator	Then some of the younger knights would have slain the ambassadors, saying that their speech was a rebuke to all who heard the king insulted
	narrator	by it.
	narrator	But when King Arthur heard that, he ordered none to touch them upon pain of death; and sending officers
	narrator	he had them taken to a noble lodging, and there entertained with the best cheer.
	king arthur	And let no dainty be spared, for the Romans are great lords; and though their message please me not, yet must I remember mine honor.
	narrator	Then the lords and knights of the Round Table were called on to declare their counsel--what should be done upon this matter; and Sir Cador
	narrator	of Cornwall speaking first
	narrator	said,
	sir cador of cornwall	Sir, this message is the best news I have heard for a long time, for we have been now idle and at rest for many
	sir cador of cornwall	days
	sir cador of cornwall	and I trust that thou wilt make sharp war upon the Romans, wherein, I doubt not, we shall all gain honor.
	king arthur	I believe well, that thou art pleased, Sir Cador; but that is scarce an answer to the Emperor of Rome
	king arthur	and his demand doth grieve me sorely, for truly I will never pay him tribute; wherefore, lords
	king arthur	I pray ye counsel me.
	king arthur	Now, I have understood that Belinus and Brennius, knights of Britain, held the Roman Empire in their hands for many days
	king arthur	and also Constantine, the son of Helen, which is open evidence, not only that we owe Rome no tribute
	king arthur	but that I, being descended from them, may, of right, myself claim the empire.
	narrator	Then said King Anguish of Scotland,
	king anguish of scotland	Sir, thou oughtest of right to be above all other kings, for in all Christendom is there not thine equal; and I counsel thee never
	king anguish of scotland	to obey the Romans.
	king anguish of scotland	For when they reigned here they grievously distressed us, and put the land to great and heavy burdens; and here
	king anguish of scotland	for my part, I swear to avenge me on them when I may, and will furnish thee with twenty thousand men-at-arms
	king anguish of scotland	whom I will pay and keep, and who shall wait on thee with me, when it shall please thee.
	narrator	Then the King of Little Britain rose and promised King Arthur thirty thousand men; and likewise many other kings
	narrator	and dukes, and barons, promised aid--as the lord of West Wales thirty thousand men, Sir Ewaine and his cousin thirty thousand men
	narrator	and so forth; Sir Lancelot also, and every other knight of the Round Table, promised each man a great host.
	narrator	So the king, passing joyful at their courage and good will, thanked them all heartily, and sent for the ambassadors again
	narrator	to hear his answer.
	king arthur	I will, that ye now go back straightway unto the Emperor your master, and tell him that I give no heed to his words
	king arthur	for I have conquered all my kingdoms by the will of God and by my own right arm
	king arthur	and I am strong enough to keep them, without paying tribute to any earthly creature. But, on the other hand
	king arthur	I claim both tribute and submission from himself, and also claim the sovereignty of all his empire
	king arthur	whereto I am entitled by the right of my own ancestors--sometime kings of this land. And say to him that I will shortly come to
	king arthur	Rome
	king arthur	and by God's grace will take possession of my empire and subdue all rebels. Wherefore, lastly, I command him and all the lords of Rome
	king arthur	that they forthwith pay me their homage
	king arthur	under pain of my chastisement and wrath.
	narrator	Then he commanded his treasurers to give the ambassadors great gifts, and defray all their charges, and appointed Sir Cador to convey them worshipfully out
	narrator	of the land.
	narrator	So when they returned to Rome and came before Lucius, he was sore angry at their words
	narrator	and said,
	lucius tiberius	I thought this Arthur would have instantly obeyed my orders and have served me as humbly as any other king; but because of his fortune
	lucius tiberius	in Gaul
	lucius tiberius	he hath grown insolent.
	narrator	"Ah, lord," said one of the ambassadors, "refrain from such vain words, for truly I and all with me were fearful at his royal majesty
	narrator	and angry countenance. I fear me thou hast made a rod for thee more sharp than thou hast counted on. He meaneth to be master
	narrator	of this empire; and is another kind of man than thou supposest
	narrator	and holdeth the most noble court of all the world. We saw him on the new year's day
	narrator	served at his table by nine kings, and the noblest company of other princes, lords, and knights that ever was in all the world; and
	narrator	in his person he is the most manly-seeming man that liveth
	narrator	and looketh like to conquer all the earth."
	narrator	Then Lucius sent messengers to all the subject countries of Rome, and brought together a mighty army
	narrator	and assembled sixteen kings, and many dukes, princes, lords, and admirals, and a wondrous great multitude of people.
	narrator	Fifty giants also, born of fiends, were set around him for a body-guard.
	narrator	With all that host he straightway went from Rome, and passed beyond the mountains into Gaul, and burned the towns and ravaged all the country
	narrator	of that province
	narrator	in rage for its submission to King Arthur.
	narrator	Then he moved on towards Little Britain.
	narrator	Meanwhile, King Arthur having held a parliament at York, left the realm in charge of Sir Badewine and Sir Constantine
	narrator	and crossed the sea from Sandwich to meet Lucius.
	narrator	And so soon as he was landed, he sent Sir Gawain, Sir Bors, Sir Lionel, and Sir Bedivere to the Emperor
	king arthur	to move swiftly and in haste out of his land, and, if not, to make himself ready for battle
	king arthur	and not continue ravaging the country and slaying harmless people.
	narrator	Anon, those noble knights attired themselves and set forth on horseback to where they saw, in a meadow
	narrator	many silken tents of divers colors, and the Emperor's pavilion in the midst, with a golden eagle set above it.
	narrator	Then Sir Gawain and Sir Bors rode forward, leaving the other two behind in ambush, and gave King Arthur's message.
	emperor lucius	Return, and tell your lord that I am come to conquer him and all his land.
	sir gawain	I had rather than all France that I might fight with thee alone!
	sir bors	And I also.
	sir ganius	Lo! how these Britons boast and are full of pride, bragging as though they bare up all the world!
	sir gawain	I had rather than all France that I might fight with thee alone!
	sir bors	And I also.
	narrator	At these words, Sir Gawain could refrain no longer, but drew forth his sword and with one blow shore off Ganius' head; then with Sir
	narrator	Bors
	narrator	he turned his horse and rode over waters and through woods, back to the ambush, where Sir Lionel and Sir Bedivere were waiting.
	narrator	The Romans followed fast behind them till the knights turned and stood, and then Sir Bors smote the foremost of them through the body with
	narrator	a spear
	narrator	and slew him on the spot.
	narrator	Then came on Calibere, a huge Pavian, but Sir Bors overthrew him also.
	narrator	And then the company of Sir Lionel and Sir Bedivere brake forth from their ambush and fell on the Romans
	narrator	and slew and hewed them down, and forced them to return and flee, chasing them to their tents.
	narrator	But as they neared the camp, a great host more rushed forth, and turned the battle backwards
	narrator	and in the turmoil, Sir Bors and Sir Berel fell into the Romans' hands.
	sir gawain	I had rather than all France that I might fight with thee alone!
	narrator	When Sir Gawain saw that, he drew his good sword Galotine, and swore to see King Arthur's face no more if those two knights were
	narrator	not delivered; and then
	narrator	with good Sir Idrus, made so sore an onslaught that the Romans fled and left Sir Bors and Sir Berel to their friends.
	narrator	So the Britons returned in triumph to King Arthur, having slain more than ten thousand Romans, and lost no man of worship from amongst themselves.
	narrator	When the Emperor Lucius heard of that discomfiture he arose, with all his army, to crush King Arthur
	narrator	and met him in the vale of Soissons.
	emperor lucius	Sirs, I admonish you that this day ye fight and acquit yourselves as men; and remembering how Rome is chief of all the earth
	emperor lucius	and mistress of the universal world, suffer not these barbarous and savage Britons to abide our onset.
	narrator	At that, the trumpets blew so loud, that the ground trembled and shook.
	narrator	Then did the rival hosts draw near each other with great shoutings; and when they closed, no tongue can tell the fury of their smiting
	narrator	and the sore struggling, wounds, and slaughter.
	narrator	Then King Arthur, with his mightiest knights, rode down into the thickest of the fight, and drew Excalibur
	narrator	and slew as lightning slays for swiftness and for force.
	narrator	And in the midmost crowd he met a giant, Galapas by name, and struck off both his legs at the knee-joints; then saying
	narrator	"Now art thou a better size to deal with!" smote his head off at a second blow: and the body killed six men in falling
	narrator	down.
	narrator	Anon, King Arthur spied where Lucius fought and worked great deeds of prowess with his own hands.
	narrator	Forthwith he rode at him, and each attacked the other passing fiercely; till at the last, Lucius struck King Arthur with a fearful wound across
	narrator	the face
	narrator	and Arthur, in return, lifting up Excalibur on high, drove it with all his force upon the Emperor's head
	narrator	shivering his helmet, crashing his head in halves, and splitting his body to the breast.
	narrator	And when the Romans saw their Emperor dead, they fled in hosts of thousands; and King Arthur and his knights
	narrator	and all his army followed them, and slew one hundred thousand men.
	narrator	Then returning to the field, King Arthur rode to the place where Lucius lay dead, and round him the kings of Egypt and Ethiopia
	narrator	and seventeen other kings, with sixty Roman senators, all noble men.
	king arthur	All these he ordered to be carefully embalmed with aromatic gums, and laid in leaden coffins, covered with their shields and arms and banners.
	king arthur	As the ransom of your lives, I will that ye take these dead bodies and carry them to Rome
	king arthur	and there present them for me, with these letters saying I will myself be shortly there.
	king arthur	And I suppose the Romans will beware how they again ask tribute of me; for tell them
	king arthur	these dead bodies that I send them are for the tribute they have dared to ask of me; and if they wish for more
	king arthur	when I come I will pay them the rest.
	narrator	So, with that charge, the three senators departed with the dead bodies, and went to Rome; the body of the Emperor being carried in a
	narrator	chariot blazoned with the arms of the empire
	narrator	all alone, and the bodies of the kings two and two in chariots following.
	narrator	After the battle, King Arthur entered Lorraine, Brabant, and Flanders, and thence, subduing all the countries as he went
	narrator	passed into Germany, and so beyond the mountains into Lombardy and Tuscany.
	narrator	At length he came before a city which refused to obey him, wherefore he sat down before it to besiege it.
	narrator	And after a long time thus spent, King Arthur called Sir Florence, and told him they began to lack food for his hosts--
	king arthur	And not far from hence, are great forests full of cattle belonging to my enemies. Go then
	king arthur	and bring by force all that thou canst find; and take with thee Sir Gawain, my nephew
	king arthur	and Sir Clegis, Sir Claremond, the Captain of Cardiff, and a strong band.
	narrator	Anon, those knights made ready, and rode over holts and hills, and through forests and woods, till they came to a great meadow full of
	narrator	fair flowers and grass
	narrator	and there they rested themselves and their horses that night.
	narrator	And at the dawn of the next day, Sir Gawain took his horse and rode away from his fellows to seek some adventure.
	narrator	Soon he saw an armed knight walking his horse by a wood's side, with his shield laced to his shoulder
	narrator	and no attendant with him save a page, bearing a mighty spear; and on his shield were blazoned three gold griffins.
	narrator	When Sir Gawain spied him, he put his spear in rest, and riding straight to him, asked who he was.
	prianius	A Tuscan,
	prianius	and thou mayest prove me when thou wilt, for thou shalt be my prisoner ere we part.
	sir gawain	Thou vauntest thee greatly, and speakest proud words; yet I counsel thee, for all thy boastings, look to thyself the best thou canst.
	narrator	At that they took their spears and ran at each other with all the might they had
	narrator	and smote each other through their shields into their shoulders; and then drawing swords smote with great strokes
	narrator	till the fire sprang out of their helms.
	narrator	Then was Sir Gawain enraged, and with his good sword Galotine struck his enemy through shield and hauberk
	narrator	and splintered into piece all the precious stones of it, and made so huge a wound that men might see both lungs and liver.
	narrator	At that the Tuscan, groaning loudly, rushed on to Sir Gawain, and gave him a deep slanting stroke
	narrator	and made a mighty wound and cut a great vein asunder, so that he bled fast.
	prianius	Bind thy wound quickly up, Sir knight, for thou be-bloodest all thy horse and thy fair armor
	prianius	and all the surgeons of the world shall never staunch thy blood; for so shall it be to whomsoever is hurt with this good sword.
	sir gawain	It grieveth me but little, and thy boastful words give me no fear, for thou shalt suffer greater grief and sorrow ere we part; but
	sir gawain	tell me quickly who can staunch this blood.
	prianius	That can I do,
	prianius	and will, if thou wilt aid and succor me to become christened, and to believe in God
	prianius	which now I do require of thee upon thy manhood.
	sir gawain	I am content,
	sir gawain	and may God help me to grant all thy wishes. But tell me first, what soughtest thou thus here alone
	sir gawain	and of what land art thou?
	narrator	Sir, said the knight, my name is Prianius, and my father is a great prince, who hath rebelled against Rome.
	narrator	He is descended from Alexander and Hector, and of our lineage also were Joshua and Maccabaeus.
	narrator	I am of right the king of Alexandria, and Africa, and all the outer isles, yet I would believe in the Lord thou worshipest
	narrator	and for thy labor I will give thee treasure enough.
	narrator	I was so proud in heart that I thought none my equal, but now have I encountered with thee
	narrator	who hast given me my fill of fighting; wherefore, I pray thee, Sir knight, tell me of thyself.
	prianius	I am no knight,
	sir gawain	I have been brought up many years in the wardrobe of the noble prince King Arthur, to mind his armor and array.
	prianius	Ah, if his varlets be so keen and fierce, his knights must be passing good! Now, for the love of heaven
	prianius	whether thou be knight or knave, tell me thy name.
	sir gawain	By heaven! now will I tell thee the truth. My name is Sir Gawain, and I am a knight of the Round Table.
	prianius	Now am I better pleased,
	narrator	said Prianius, "than if thou hadst given me all the province of Paris the rich. I had rather have been torn by wild horses than
	narrator	that any varlet should have won such victory over me as thou hast done. But now
	narrator	Sir knight, I warn thee that close by is the Duke of Lorraine, with sixty thousand good men of war; and we had both best
	narrator	flee at once
	narrator	for he will find us else, and we be sorely wounded and never likely to recover. And let my page be careful that he blow
	narrator	no horn
	narrator	for hard by are a hundred knights, my servants; and if they seize thee, no ransom of gold or silver would acquit thee."
	narrator	Then Sir Gawain rode over a river to save himself, and Sir Prianius after him, and so they both fled till they came to his
	narrator	companions who were in the meadow
	narrator	where they spent the night.
	narrator	When Sir Whishard saw Sir Gawain so hurt, he ran to him weeping, and asked him who it was had wounded him;
	sir gawain	and Sir Gawain told him how he had fought with that man--pointing to Prianius--who had salves to heal them both.
	sir gawain	But I can tell ye other tidings,
	sir gawain	that soon we must encounter many enemies, for a great army is close to us in our front.
	narrator	Then Prianius and Sir Gawain alighted and let their horses graze while they unarmed, and when they took this armor and their clothing off
	narrator	the hot blood ran down freshly from their wounds till it was piteous to see.
	narrator	But Prianius took from his page a vial filled from the four rivers that flow out of Paradise
	narrator	and anointed both their wounds with a certain balm, and washed them with that water, and within an hour afterwards they were both as sound
	narrator	and whole as ever they had been.
	narrator	Then, at the sound of a trumpet, all the knights were assembled to council; and after much talking
	narrator	Prianius said,
	prianius	Cease your words, for I warn you in yonder wood ye shall find knights out of number
	prianius	who will put out cattle for a decoy to lead you on; and ye are not seven hundred!
	sir gawain	Nevertheless, let us at once encounter them, and see what they can do; and may the best have the victory.
	narrator	Then they saw suddenly an earl named Sir Ethelwold, and the Duke of Duchmen come leaping out of ambush of the woods in front
	narrator	with many a thousand after them, and all rode straight down to the battle.
	narrator	And Sir Gawain, full of ardor and courage, comforted his knights, saying,
	sir gawain	They all are ours.
	narrator	Then the seven hundred knights, in one close company, set spurs to their horses and began to gallop
	narrator	and fiercely met their enemies.
	narrator	And then were men and horses slain and overthrown on every side, and in and out amidst them all
	narrator	the knights of the Round Table pressed and thrust, and smote down to the earth all who withstood them
	narrator	till at length the whole of them turned back and fled.
	sir gawain	By heaven! this gladdeneth well my heart, for now behold them as they flee! they are full seventy thousand less in number than they were
	sir gawain	an hour ago!
	narrator	Thus was the battle quickly ended, and a great host of high lords and knights of Lombardy and Saracens left dead upon the field.
	narrator	Then Sir Gawain and his company collected a great plenty of cattle, and of gold and silver
	narrator	and all kind of treasure, and returned to King Arthur, where he still kept the siege.
	sir gawain	Now God be thanked, but who is he that standeth yonder by himself, and seemeth not a prisoner?
	sir gawain	Sir, he is a good man with his weapons, and hath matched me; but cometh hither to be made a Christian. Had it not been
	sir gawain	for his warnings
	sir gawain	we none of us should have been here this day. I pray thee, therefore, let him be baptized
	sir gawain	for there can be few nobler men, or better knights.
	narrator	So Prianius was christened, and made a duke and knight of the Round Table.
	narrator	Presently afterwards, they made a last attack upon the city, and entered by the walls on every side; and as the men were rushing to
	narrator	the pillage
	narrator	came the Duchess forth, with many ladies and damsels, and kneeled before King Arthur; and besought him to receive their submission.
	king arthur	Madam, be well assured that none shall harm ye, or your ladies; neither shall any that belong to thee be hurt; but the Duke must
	king arthur	abide my judgment.
	narrator	Then he commanded to stay the assault and took the keys from the Duke's eldest son, who brought them kneeling.
	narrator	Anon the Duke was sent a prisoner to Dover for his life, and rents and taxes were assigned for dowry of the Duchess and her
	narrator	children.
	narrator	Then went he on with all his hosts, winning all towns and castles, and wasting them that refused obedience
	narrator	till he came to Viterbo.
	narrator	From thence he sent to Rome, to ask the senators whether they would receive him for their lord and governor.
	narrator	In answer, came out to him all the Senate who remained alive, and the Cardinals, with a majestic retinue and procession; and laying great treasures
	narrator	at his feet
	narrator	they prayed him to come in at once to Rome, and there be peaceably crowned as Emperor.
	king arthur	At this next Christmas, will I be crowned, and hold my Round Table in your city.
	narrator	Anon he entered Rome, in mighty pomp and state; and after him came all his hosts, and his knights
	narrator	and princes, and great lords, arrayed in gold and jewels, such as never were beheld before.
	narrator	And then was he crowned Emperor by the Pope's hands, with all the highest solemnity that could be made.
	narrator	Then after his coronation, he abode in Rome for a season, settling his lands and giving kingdoms to his knights and servants
	narrator	to each one after his deserving, and in such wise fashion that no man among them all complained.
	narrator	Also he made many dukes and earls, and loaded all his men-at-arms with riches and great treasures.
	narrator	When all this was done, the lords and knights, and all the men of great estate, came together before him
	narrator	and said,
	lords and knights	Noble Emperor! by the blessing of Eternal God, thy mortal warfare is all finished, and thy conquests all achieved; for now in all the world
	lords and knights	is none so great and mighty as to dare make war with thee. Wherefore we beseech and heartily pray thee of thy noble grace
	lords and knights	to turn thee homeward, and give us also leave to see our wives and homes again, for now we have been from them a long
	lords and knights	season
	lords and knights	and all thy journey is completed with great honor and worship.
	king arthur	Ye say well, and to tempt God is no wisdom; therefore make ready in all haste, and turn we home to England.
	narrator	So King Arthur returned with his knights and lords and armies, in great triumph and joy, through all the countries he had conquered
	narrator	and commanded that no man, upon pain of death, should rob or do any violence by the way.
	narrator	And crossing the sea, he came at length to Sandwich, where Queen Guinevere received him, and made great joy at his arrival.
	narrator	And through all the realm of Britain was there such rejoicing as no tongue can tell.
