	narrator	XI
	narrator	THE ADVENTURES OF SIR BEAUMAINS OR SIR GARETH
	narrator	Again King Arthur held the Feast of Pentecost, with all the Table Round,
	narrator	and after his custom sat in the banquet hall, before beginning meat,
	narrator	waiting for some adventure.
	narrator	Then came there to the king a squire and said,
	squire	Lord, now may ye go to meat, for here a damsel cometh with some strange adventure.
	narrator	So the king was glad, and sat down to meat.
	narrator	Anon the damsel came in and saluted him, praying him for succor.
	king arthur	What wilt thou?
	damsel	Lord, answered she, my mistress is a lady of great renown, but is at this time besieged by a tyrant
	damsel	who will not suffer her to go out of her castle; and because here in thy court the knights are called the noblest in the
	damsel	world
	damsel	I come to pray thee for thy succor.
	king arthur	Where dwelleth your lady?
	king arthur	What is her name, and who is he that hath besieged her?
	damsel	For her name, replied the damsel, as yet I may not tell it; but she is a lady of worship and great lands. The tyrant
	damsel	that besiegeth her and wasteth her lands is called the Red Knight of the Redlands.
	king arthur	I know him not.
	sir gawain	But I know him, lord, and he is one of the most perilous knights in all the world. Men say he hath the strength of
	sir gawain	seven; and from him I myself once hardly escaped with life.
	king arthur	Fair damsel, there be here many knights that would gladly do their uttermost to rescue your lady
	king arthur	but unless ye tell me her name, and where she dwelleth, none of my knights shall go with you by my leave.
	narrator	Now, there was a stripling at the court called Beaumains, who served in the king's kitchen, a fair youth and of great stature.
	narrator	Twelve months before this time he had come to the king as he sat at meat, at Whitsuntide
	narrator	and prayed three gifts of him.
	narrator	And being asked what gifts, he answered, "As for the first gift I will ask it now
	narrator	but the other two gifts I will ask on this day twelve months, wheresoever ye hold your high feast."
	king arthur	What is thy first request?
	beaumains	This, lord, that thou wilt give me meat and drink enough for twelve months from this time
	beaumains	and then will I ask my other two gifts.
	narrator	And the king seeing that he was a goodly youth, and deeming that he was come of honorable blood
	narrator	had granted his desire, and given him into the charge of Sir Key, the steward.
	narrator	But Sir Key scorned and mocked the youth, calling Beaumains, because his hands were large and fair
	narrator	and putting him into the kitchen, where he had served for twelve months as a scullion, and
	narrator	in spite of all his churlish treatment, had faithfully obeyed Sir Key.
	narrator	But Sir Lancelot and Sir Gawain were angered when they saw Sir Key so churlish to a youth that had so worshipful a bearing
	narrator	and ofttimes had they given him gold and clothing.
	narrator	And now at this time came young Beaumains to the king, while the damsel was there, and said
	beaumains	Lord, now I thank thee well and heartily that I have been twelve months kept in thy kitchen
	beaumains	and have had full sustenance. Now will I ask my two remaining gifts.
	king arthur	Ask,
	king arthur	on my good faith.
	beaumains	These, lord, shall be my two gifts--the one, that thou wilt grant me this adventure of the damsel
	beaumains	for to me of right it belongeth; and the other, that thou wilt bid Sir Lancelot make me a knight
	beaumains	for of him only will I have that honor; and I pray that he may ride after me and make me a knight when I
	beaumains	require him.
	king arthur	Be it as thou wilt,
	narrator	replied the king.
	narrator	But thereupon the damsel was full wroth, and said,
	damsel	Shall I have a kitchen page for this adventure?
	narrator	and so she took horse and departed.
	narrator	Then came one to Beaumains, and told him that a dwarf with a horse and armor were waiting for him.
	narrator	And all men marveled whence these things came.
	narrator	But when he was on horseback and armed, scarce any one at the court was a goodlier man than he.
	narrator	And coming into the hall, he took his leave of the king and Sir Gawain, and prayed Sir Lancelot to follow him.
	narrator	So he rode after the damsel, and many of the court went out to see him, so richly arrayed and horsed; yet he had neither
	narrator	shield nor spear.
	narrator	Then Sir Key cried,
	sir key	I also will ride after the kitchen boy, and see whether he will obey me now.
	narrator	And taking his horse, he rode after him, and said,
	sir key	Know ye not me, Beaumains?
	beaumains	Yea,
	beaumains	I know thee for an ungentle knight, therefore beware of me.
	narrator	Then Sir Key put his spear in rest and ran at him, but Beaumains rushed upon him with his sword in his hand
	narrator	and therewith, putting aside the spear, struck Sir Key so sorely in the side, that he fell down
	narrator	as if dead.
	narrator	Then he alighted, and took his shield and spear, and bade his dwarf ride upon Sir Key's horse.
	narrator	By this time, Sir Lancelot had come up, and Beaumains offering to tilt with him, they both made ready.
	narrator	And their horses came together so fiercely that both fell to the earth, full sorely bruised.
	narrator	Then they arose, and Beaumains, putting up his shield before him, offered to fight Sir Lancelot, on foot.
	narrator	So they rushed upon each other, striking, and thrusting, and parrying, for the space of an hour.
	narrator	And Lancelot marveled at the strength of Beaumains, for he fought more like a giant than a man
	narrator	and his fighting was passing fierce and terrible.
	sir lancelot	Fight not so sorely, Beaumains; our quarrel is not such that we may not now cease.
	beaumains	True, yet it doth me good to feel thy might, though I have not yet proved my uttermost.
	sir lancelot	By my faith, I had as much as I could do to save myself from you unshamed
	sir lancelot	therefore be in no doubt of any earthly knight.
	beaumains	May I, then, stand as a proved knight?
	sir lancelot	For that will I be thy warrant.
	beaumains	Then, I pray thee, give me the order of knighthood.
	sir lancelot	First, then, must thou tell me of thy name and kindred.
	beaumains	If thou wilt tell them to no other, I will tell thee.
	beaumains	My name is Gareth of Orkney, and I am own brother to Sir Gawain.
	sir lancelot	Ah! at that am I full glad; for, truly, I deemed thee to be of gentle blood.
	narrator	So then he knighted Beaumains, and, after that, they parted company, and Sir Lancelot, returning to the court
	narrator	took up Sir Key on his shield.
	narrator	And hardly did Sir Key escape with his life, from the wound Beaumains had given him; but all men blamed him for his ungentle treatment
	narrator	of so brave a knight.
	narrator	Then Sir Beaumains rode forward, and soon overtook the damsel; but she said to him, in scorn
	damsel	Return again, base kitchen page! What art thou, but a washer-up of dishes!
	beaumains	Damsel, say to me what thou wilt, I will not leave thee; for I have undertaken to King Arthur to relieve thy adventure
	beaumains	and I will finish it to the end, or die.
	damsel	Thou finish my adventure!
	damsel	Anon, thou shalt meet one, whose face thou wilt not even dare to look at.
	beaumains	I shall attempt it.
	narrator	So, as they rode thus, into a wood, there met them a man, fleeing, as for his life.
	beaumains	Whither fleest thou?
	knight of the redlands	O lord! help me; for, in a valley hard by, there are six thieves, who have taken my lord
	knight of the redlands	and bound him, and I fear will slay him.
	beaumains	Bring me thither.
	narrator	So they rode to the place, and Sir Beaumains rushed after the thieves, and smote one, at the first stroke
	narrator	so that he died; and then, with two other blows, slew a second and third.
	narrator	Then fled the other three, and Sir Beaumains rode after them, and overtook and slew them all.
	narrator	Then he returned and unbound the knight.
	knight of the redlands	And the knight thanked him, and prayed him to ride to his castle, where he would reward him.
	beaumains	Sir, I will have no reward of thee, for but this day was I made knight by the most noble Sir Lancelot; and besides
	beaumains	I must go with this damsel.
	narrator	Then the knight begged the damsel to rest that night at his castle.
	narrator	So they all rode thither, and ever the damsel scoffed at Sir Beaumains as a kitchen boy
	narrator	and laughed at him before the knight their host, so that he set his meat before him at a lower table
	narrator	as though he were not of their company.
	narrator	And on the morrow, the damsel and Sir Beaumains took their leave of the knight, and thanking him departed.
	narrator	Then they rode on their way till they came to a great forest, through which flowed a river
	narrator	and there was but one passage over it, whereat stood two knights armed to hinder the way.
	damsel	Wilt thou match those two knights, or return again?
	beaumains	I would not return, though they were six.
	narrator	Therewith he galloped into the water, and swam his horse into the middle of the stream.
	narrator	And there, in the river, one of the knights met him, and they brake their spears together
	narrator	and then drew their swords, and smote fiercely at each other.
	narrator	And at the last, Sir Beaumains struck the other mightily upon the helm, so that he fell down stunned into the water
	narrator	and was drowned.
	narrator	Then Sir Beaumains spurred his horse on to the land, where instantly the other knight fell on him.
	narrator	And they also brake their spears upon each other, and then drew their swords, and fought savagely and long together.
	narrator	And after many blows, Sir Beaumains clove through the knight's skull down to the shoulders.
	narrator	Then rode Sir Beaumains to the damsel, but ever she still scoffed at him, and said,
	damsel	Alas! that a kitchen page should chance to slay two such brave knights! Thou deemest now that thou hast done a mighty deed
	damsel	but it is not so; for the first knight's horse stumbled, and thus was he drowned--not by thy strength; and as for the second knight
	damsel	thou wentest by chance behind him, and didst kill him shamefully.
	beaumains	Damsel, say what ye list, I care not so I may win your lady; and wouldst thou give me but fair language
	beaumains	all my care were past; for whatsoever knights I meet, I fear them not.
	damsel	Thou shalt see knights that shall abate thy boast, base kitchen knave; yet say I this for thine advantage
	damsel	for if thou followest me thou wilt be surely slain, since I see all thou doest is but by chance
	damsel	and not by thy own prowess.
	beaumains	Well, damsel, say what ye will, wherever ye go I will follow.
	narrator	So they rode on until the eventide, and still the damsel evermore kept chiding Sir Beaumains.
	narrator	Then came they to a black space of land, whereon was a black hawthorn tree, and on the tree there hung a black banner
	narrator	and on the other side was a black shield and spear, and by them a great black horse
	narrator	covered with silk; and hard by sat a knight armed in black armor, whose name was the Knight of the Blacklands.
	narrator	When the damsel saw him, she cried out to Beaumains, "Flee down the valley, for thy horse is not saddled!"
	beaumains	Wilt thou forever deem me coward?
	narrator	With that came the Black Knight to the damsel, and said, "Fair damsel, hast thou brought this knight from Arthur's court to be thy champion?"
	damsel	Not so, fair knight, he is but a kitchen knave.
	knight of the blacklands	Then wherefore commeth he in such array? it is a shame that he should bear thee company.
	damsel	I cannot be delivered from him, for in spite of me he rideth with me; and would to Heaven you would put him from me
	damsel	or now slay him, for he hath slain two knights at the river passage yonder, and done many marvelous deeds through pure mischance.
	knight of the blacklands	I marvel that any man of worship will fight with him.
	damsel	They know him not, and think, because he rideth with me, that he is well born.
	knight of the blacklands	Truly, he hath a goodly person, and is likely to be a strong man, but since he is no man of worship
	knight of the blacklands	he shall leave his horse and armor with me, for it were a shame for me to do him more harm.
	narrator	When Sir Beaumains heard him speak thus, he said, "Horse or armor gettest thou none of me
	narrator	Sir knight, save thou winnest them with thy hands; therefore defend thyself, and let me see what thou canst do."
	knight of the blacklands	How sayest thou? Now quit this lady also, for it beseemeth not a kitchen knave like thee to ride with such a lady.
	beaumains	I am of higher lineage than thou, and will straightway prove it on thy body.
	narrator	Then furiously they drove their horses at each other, and came together as it had been thunder.
	narrator	But the Black Knight's spear brake short, and Sir Beaumains thrust him through the side, and his spear breaking at the head
	narrator	left its point sticking fast in the Black Knight's body.
	narrator	Yet did the Black Knight draw his sword, and smite at Sir Beaumains with many fierce and bitter blows; but after they had fought an
	narrator	hour and more
	narrator	he fell down from his horse in a swoon, and forthwith died.
	narrator	Then Sir Beaumains lighted down and armed himself in the Black Knight's armor, and rode on after the damsel.
	narrator	But notwithstanding all his valor, still she scoffed at him, and said, "Away! for thou savorest ever of the kitchen. Alas! that such a knave
	narrator	should by mishap destroy so good a knight; yet once again I counsel thee to flee
	narrator	for hard by is a knight who shall repay thee!"
	beaumains	It may chance that I am beaten or slain, but I warn thee, fair damsel, that I will not flee away
	beaumains	nor leave thy company, or my quest, for all that ye can say.
	narrator	Anon, as they rode, they saw a knight come swiftly towards them, dressed all in green, who
	narrator	calling to the damsel said, "Is that my brother, the Black Knight, that ye have brought with you?"
	damsel	Nay, and alas! this kitchen knave hath slain thy brother through mischance.
	knight of the greenlands	Alas! that such a noble knight as he was should be slain by a knave's hand. Traitor! cried he to Sir Beaumains
	knight of the greenlands	thou shalt die for this! Sir Pereard was my brother, and a full noble knight.
	beaumains	I defy thee, for I slew him knightly and not shamefully.
	narrator	Then the Green Knight rode to a thorn whereon hung a green horn, and, when he blew three notes
	narrator	there came three damsels forth, who quickly armed him, and brought him a great horse and a green shield and spear.
	narrator	Then did they run at one another with their fullest might, and break their spears asunder; and
	narrator	drawing their swords, they closed in fight, and sorely smote and wounded each other with many grievous blows.
	narrator	At last, Sir Beaumains' horse jostled against the Green Knight's horse, and overthrew him.
	narrator	Then both alighted, and, hurtling together like mad lions, fought a great while on foot.
	narrator	But the damsel cheered the Green Knight, and said, "My lord, why wilt thou let a kitchen knave so long stand up against thee?"
	narrator	Hearing these words, he was ashamed, and gave Sir Beaumains such a mighty stroke as clave his shield asunder.
	narrator	When Sir Beaumains heard the damsel's words, and felt that blow, he waxed passing wroth, and gave the Green Knight such a buffet on the
	narrator	helm that he fell on his knees
	narrator	and with another blow Sir Beaumains threw him on the ground.
	narrator	Then the Green Knight yielded, and prayed him to spare his life.
	beaumains	All thy prayers are vain, unless this damsel who came with me pray for thee.
	damsel	That will I never do, base kitchen knave.
	beaumains	Then shall he die.
	knight of the greenlands	Alas! fair lady, suffer me not to die for a word! O, Sir knight, cried he to Beaumains
	knight of the greenlands	give me my life, and I will ever do thee homage; and thirty knights, who owe me service
	knight of the greenlands	shall give allegiance to thee.
	beaumains	All availeth not, unless the damsel ask me for thy life; and thereupon he made as though he would have slain him.
	damsel	Slay him not; for if thou do thou shalt repent it.
	beaumains	Damsel, at thy command, he shall obtain his life. Arise, Sir knight of the green armor, I release thee!
	narrator	Then the Green Knight knelt at his feet, and did him homage with his words.
	narrator	"Lodge with me this night," said he, "and to-morrow will I guide ye through the forest." So
	narrator	taking their horses, they rode to his castle, which was hard by.
	narrator	Yet still did the damsel rebuke and scoff at Sir Beaumains, and would not suffer him to sit at her table.
	green knight	I marvel, that ye thus chide so noble a knight, for truly I know none to match him; and be sure
	green knight	that whatsoever he appeareth now, he will prove, at the end, of noble blood and royal lineage.
	narrator	But of all this would the damsel take no heed, and ceased not to mock at Sir Beaumains.
	narrator	On the morrow, they arose and heard mass; and when they had broken their fast, took their horses and rode on their way
	narrator	the Green Knight conveying them through the forest.
	green knight	My lord, my thirty knights and I shall always be at thy command whensoever thou shalt send for us.
	sir beaumains	It is well said; and when I call upon you, you shall yield yourself and all your knights unto King Arthur.
	green knight	That will we gladly do,
	narrator	and so departed.
	narrator	And the damsel rode on before Sir Beaumains, and said to him,
	damsel	Why dost thou follow me, thou kitchen boy? I counsel thee to throw aside thy spear and shield
	damsel	and flee betimes, for wert thou as mighty as Sir Lancelot or Sir Tristram, thou shouldest not pass a valley near this place
	damsel	called the Pass Perilous.
	sir beaumains	Damsel, let him that feareth flee; as for me, it were indeed a shameful thing to turn after so long a journey.
	narrator	As he spake, they came upon a tower as white as snow, with mighty battlements, and double moats round it
	narrator	and over the tower-gate hung fifty shields of divers colors.
	narrator	Before the tower walls, they saw a fair meadow, wherein were many knights and squires in pavilions
	narrator	for on the morrow there was a tournament at that castle.
	narrator	Then the lord of the castle, seeing a knight armed at all points, with a damsel and a page
	narrator	riding towards the tower, came forth to meet them; and his horse and harness, with his shield and spear
	narrator	were all of a red color.
	narrator	When he came near Sir Beaumains, and saw his armor all of black, he thought him his own brother
	narrator	the Black Knight, and so cried aloud,
	red knight	Brother! what do ye here, within these borders?
	damsel	Nay! it is not thy brother, but a kitchen knave of Arthur's court, who hath slain thy brother
	damsel	and overcome thy other brother also, the Green Knight.
	red knight	Now do I defy thee!
	narrator	cried the Red Knight to Sir Beaumains, and put his spear in rest and spurred his horse.
	narrator	Then both knights turned back a little space, and ran together with all their might, till their horses fell to the earth.
	narrator	Then, with their swords, they fought fiercely for the space of three hours.
	narrator	And at last, Sir Beaumains overcame his foe, and smote him to the ground.
	red knight	Slay me not, noble knight, and I will yield to thee with sixty knights that do my bidding.
	sir beaumains	All avails not, save this damsel pray me to release thee.
	narrator	Then did he lift his sword to slay him; but the damsel cried aloud,
	damsel	Slay him not, Beaumains, for he is a noble knight.
	sir beaumains	Then Sir Beaumains bade him rise up and thank the damsel, which straightway he did, and afterwards invited them to his castle
	sir beaumains	and made them goodly cheer.
	narrator	But notwithstanding all Sir Beaumains' mighty deeds, the damsel ceased not to revile and chide him, at which the Red Knight marveled much; and caused
	narrator	his sixty knights to watch Sir Beaumains
	narrator	that no villainy might happen to him.
	narrator	And on the morrow, they heard mass and broke their fast, and the Red Knight came before Sir Beaumains
	narrator	with his sixty knights, and proffered him homage and fealty.
	sir beaumains	I thank thee; and when I call upon thee thou shalt come before my lord King Arthur at his court, and yield yourselves to him.
	red knight	That will we surely do,
	narrator	So Sir Beaumains and the damsel departed.
	narrator	And as she constantly reviled him and tormented him, he said to her,
	sir beaumains	Damsel, ye are discourteous thus always to rebuke me, for I have done you service; and for all your threats of knights that shall destroy
	sir beaumains	me
	sir beaumains	all they who come lie in the dust before me. Now, therefore, I pray you rebuke me no more till you see me beaten or
	sir beaumains	a recreant
	sir beaumains	and then bid me go from you.
	damsel	There shall soon meet thee a knight who shall repay thee all thy deeds, thou boaster, for
	damsel	save King Arthur, he is the man of most worship in the world.
	sir beaumains	It will be the greater honor to encounter him.
	narrator	Soon after, they saw before them a city passing fair, and between them and the city was a meadow newly mown
	narrator	wherein were many goodly tents.
	damsel	Seest thou yonder blue pavilion? It is Sir Perseant's, the lord of that great city, whose custom is
	damsel	in all fair weather, to lie in this meadow, and joust with his knights.
	narrator	And as she spake, Sir Perseant, who had espied them coming, sent a messenger to meet Sir Beaumains
	narrator	and to ask him if he came in war or peace.
	sir beaumains	Say to thy lord, that I care not whether of the twain it be.
	narrator	So when the messenger gave this reply, Sir Perseant came out to fight with Sir Beaumains.
	narrator	And making ready, they rode their steeds against each other; and when their spears were shivered asunder
	narrator	they fought with their swords.
	narrator	And for more than two hours did they hack and hew at each other, till their shields and hauberks were all dented with many blows
	narrator	and they themselves were sorely wounded.
	narrator	And at the last, Sir Beaumains smote Sir Perseant on the helm, so that he fell groveling on the earth.
	narrator	And when he unlaced his helm to slay him, the damsel prayed for his life.
	sir beaumains	That will I grant gladly, for it were pity such a noble knight should die.
	sir perseant	Gramercy! for now I certainly know that it was thou who slewest my brother, the Black Knight
	sir perseant	Sir Pereard; and overcame my brothers, the Green Knight, Sir Pertolope, and the Red Knight, Sir Perimones; and since thou hast overcome me also
	sir perseant	I will do thee homage and fealty, and place at thy command one hundred knights to do thy bidding.
	narrator	But when the damsel saw Sir Perseant overthrown, she marveled greatly at the might of Sir Beaumains
	narrator	and said,
	damsel	What manner of man may ye be, for now am I sure that ye be come of noble blood? And truly
	damsel	never did woman revile knight as I have done thee, and yet ye have ever courteously borne with me
	damsel	which surely never had been were ye not of gentle blood and lineage.
	sir beaumains	Lady, a knight is little worth who may not bear with a damsel; and so whatsoever ye said to me I took no heed
	sir beaumains	save only that at times when your scorn angered me, it made me all the stronger against those with whom I fought
	sir beaumains	and thus have ye furthered me in my battles. But whether I be born of gentle blood or no
	sir beaumains	I have done you gentle service, and peradventure will do better still, ere I depart from you.
	damsel	Alas! said she, weeping at his courtesy, forgive me, fair Sir Beaumains, all that I have missaid and misdone against you.
	sir beaumains	With all my heart; and since you now speak fairly to me, I am passing glad of heart
	sir beaumains	and methinks I have the strength to overcome whatever knights I shall henceforth encounter.
	narrator	Then Sir Perseant prayed them to come to his pavilion, and set before them wines and spices
	narrator	and made them great cheer.
	narrator	So they rested that night; and on the morrow, the damsel and Sir Beaumains rose, and heard mass.
	narrator	And when they had broken their fast, they took their leave of Sir Perseant.
	sir perseant	Fair damsel, whither lead ye this knight?
	damsel	Sir, to the Castle Dangerous, where my sister is besieged by the Knight of the Redlands.
	sir perseant	I know him well, for the most perilous knight alive--a man without mercy, and with the strength of seven men. God save thee
	sir perseant	Sir Beaumains, from him! and enable thee to overcome him, for the Lady Lyones, whom he besiegeth
	sir perseant	is as fair a lady as there liveth in this world.
	damsel	Thou sayest truth, sir; for I am her sister; and men call me Linet, or the Wild Maiden.
	sir perseant	Now, I would have thee know, said Sir Perseant to Sir Beaumains, that the Knight of the Redlands hath kept that siege more than two
	sir perseant	years
	sir perseant	and prolongeth the time hoping that Sir Lancelot, or Sir Tristram, or Sir Lamoracke, may come and battle with him; for these three knights divide
	sir perseant	between them all knighthood; and thou if thou mayest match the Knight of the Redlands
	sir perseant	shalt well be called the fourth knight of the world.
	sir beaumains	Sir, I would fain have that good fame; and truly, I am come of great and honorable lineage. And so that you and this fair
	sir beaumains	damsel will conceal it
	sir beaumains	I will tell ye my descent.
	narrator	And when they swore to keep it secret, he told them,
	sir beaumains	My name is Sir Gareth of Orkney, my father was King Lot, and my mother the Lady Belisent
	sir beaumains	King Arthur's sister. Sir Gawain, Sir Agravain, and Sir Gaheris, are my brethren, and I am the youngest of them all. But
	sir beaumains	as yet King Arthur and the court know me not, who I am.
	narrator	When he had thus told them, they both wondered greatly.
	narrator	And the damsel Linet sent the dwarf forward to her sister, to tell her of their coming.
	narrator	Then did Dame Lyones inquire what manner of man the knight was who was coming to her rescue.
	narrator	And the dwarf told her of all Sir Beaumains' deeds by the way: how he had overthrown Sir Key
	narrator	and left him for dead; how he had battled with Sir Lancelot, and was knighted of him; how he had fought with
	narrator	and slain, the thieves; how he had overcome the two knights who kept the river passage; how he had fought with
	narrator	and slain, the Black Knight; and how he had overcome the Green Knight, the Red Knight, and last of all
	narrator	the Blue Knight, Sir Perseant.
	narrator	Then was Dame Lyones passing glad, and sent the dwarf back to Sir Beaumains with great gifts
	narrator	thanking him for his courtesy, in taking such a labor on him for her sake, and praying him to be of good heart and courage.
	narrator	And as the dwarf returned, he met the Knight of the Redlands, who asked him whence he came.
	dwarf	I came here with the sister of my lady of the castle,
	knight of the redlands	Then is her travail lost, replied the knight; for, though she had brought Sir Lancelot, Sir Tristram
	knight of the redlands	Sir Lamoracke, or Sir Gawain, I count myself their equal, and who besides shall be so called?
	narrator	Then the dwarf told the knight what deeds Sir Beaumains had done; but he answered,
	knight of the redlands	I care not for him, whosoever he be, for I shall shortly overcome him, and give him shameful death
	knight of the redlands	as to so many others I have done.
	narrator	Then the damsel Linet and Sir Beaumains left Sir Perseant, and rode on through a forest to a large plain
	narrator	where they saw many pavilions, and hard by, a castle passing fair.
	narrator	But as they came near Sir Beaumains saw upon the branches of some trees which grew there
	narrator	the dead bodies of forty knights hanging, with rich armor on them, their shields and swords about their necks
	narrator	and golden spurs upon their heels.
	sir beaumains	What meaneth this?
	narrator	amazed.
	damsel	Lose not thy courage, fair sir, at this shameful sight, for all these knights came hither to rescue my sister; and when the Knight of
	damsel	the Redlands had overcome them
	damsel	he put them to this piteous death, without mercy; and in such wise will he treat thee also unless thou bearest thee more valiantly than
	damsel	they.
	sir beaumains	Truly he useth shameful customs, and it is a marvel that he hath endured so long.
	narrator	So they rode onward to the castle walls, and found them double-moated, and heard the sea waves dashing on one side the walls.
	narrator	Then said the damsel,
	damsel	See you that ivory horn hanging upon the sycamore-tree? The Knight of the Redlands hath hung it there
	damsel	that any knight may blow thereon, and then will he himself come out and fight with him. But I pray thee sound it not till
	damsel	high noontide
	damsel	for now it is but daybreak, and till noon his strength increases to the might of seven men.
	sir beaumains	Let that be as it may, fair damsel, for were he stronger knight than ever lived, I would not fail him. Either will I defeat
	sir beaumains	him at his mightiest
	sir beaumains	or die knightly in the field.
	narrator	With that he spurred his horse unto the sycamore, and blew the ivory horn so eagerly, that all the castle rang its echoes.
	narrator	Instantly, all the knights who were in the pavilions ran forth, and those within the castle looked out from the windows
	narrator	or above the walls.
	narrator	And the Knight of the Redlands, arming himself quickly in blood-red armor, with spear, and shield, and horse's trappings of like color
	narrator	rode forth into a little valley by the castle walls, so that all in the castle, and at the siege
	narrator	might see the battle.
	damsel	Be of good cheer,
	narrator	said the damsel Linet to Sir Beaumains, "for thy deadly enemy now cometh; and at yonder window is my lady and sister
	narrator	Dame Lyones."
	sir beaumains	In good sooth, she is the fairest lady I have ever seen, and I would wish no better quarrel than to fight for her.
	narrator	With that, he looked up to the window, and saw the Lady Lyones, who waved her handkerchief to her sister and to him to cheer
	narrator	them.
	narrator	Then called the Knight of the Redlands to Sir Beaumains,
	knight of the redlands	Leave now thy gazing, Sir knight, and turn to me, for I warn thee that lady is mine.
	sir beaumains	She loveth none of thy fellowship, but know this, that I love her, and will rescue her from thee, or die.
	knight of the redlands	Say ye so!
	sir beaumains	Take ye no warning from those knights that hang on yonder trees?
	sir beaumains	For shame that thou so boastest! Be sure that sight hath raised a hatred for thee that will not lightly be put out
	sir beaumains	and given me not fear, but rage.
	knight of the redlands	Sir knight, defend thyself, for we will talk no longer.
	narrator	Then did they put their spears in rest, and came together at the fullest speed of their horses
	narrator	and smote each other in the midst of their shields, so that their horses' harness sundered by the shock
	narrator	and they fell to the ground.
	narrator	And both lay there so long time, stunned, that many deemed their necks were broken.
	narrator	And all men said the strange knight was a strong man, and a noble jouster, for none had ever yet so matched the Knight of
	narrator	the Redlands.
	narrator	Then, in a while, they rose, and putting up their shields before them, drew their swords, and fought with fury
	narrator	running at each other like wild beasts--now striking such buffets that both reeled backwards, now hewing at each other till they shore the harness off
	narrator	in pieces
	narrator	and left their bodies naked and unarmed.
	narrator	And thus they fought till noon was past, when, for a time, they rested to get breath
	narrator	so sorely staggering and bleeding, that many who beheld them wept for pity.
	narrator	Then they renewed the battle--sometimes rushing so furiously together, that both fell to the ground, and anon changing swords in their confusion.
	narrator	Thus they endured, and lashed, and struggled, until eventide, and none who saw knew which was the likeliest to win; for though the Knight of
	narrator	the Redlands was a wily and subtle warrior
	narrator	his subtlety made Sir Beaumains wilier and wiser too.
	narrator	So once again they rested for a little space, and took their helms off to find breath.
	narrator	But when Sir Beaumains' helm was off, he looked up to Dame Lyones, where she leaned, gazing and weeping
	narrator	from her window.
	narrator	And when he saw the sweetness of her smiling, all his heart was light and joyful, and starting up
	narrator	he bade the Knight of the Redlands make ready.
	narrator	Then did they lace their helms and fight together yet afresh, as though they had never fought before.
	narrator	And at the last, the Knight of the Redlands with a sudden stroke smote Sir Beaumains on the hand
	narrator	so that his sword fell from it, and with a second stroke upon the helm he drove him to the earth.
	narrator	Then cried aloud the damsel Linet,
	damsel	Alas! Sir Beaumains, see how my sister weepeth to behold thee fallen!
	narrator	And when Sir Beaumains heard her words, he sprang upon his feet with strength, and leaping to his sword
	narrator	he caught it; and with many heavy blows pressed so sorely on the Knight of the Redlands
	narrator	that in the end he smote his sword from out his hand, and, with a mighty blow upon the head
	narrator	hurled him upon the ground.
	narrator	Then Sir Beaumains unlaced his helm, and would have straightway slain him, but the Knight of the Redlands yielded
	narrator	and prayed for mercy.
	knight of the redlands	I may not spare thee, because of the shameful death which thou hast given to so many noble knights.
	knight of the redlands	Yet hold thy hand, Sir knight, and hear the cause. I loved once a fair damsel, whose brother was slain
	knight of the redlands	as she told me, by a knight of Arthur's court, either Sir Lancelot, or Sir Gawain; and she prayed me
	knight of the redlands	as I truly loved her, and by the faith of my knighthood, to labor daily in deeds of arms
	knight of the redlands	till I should meet with him; and to put all knights of the Round Table whom I should overcome to a villainous death. And this
	knight of the redlands	I swore to her.
	narrator	Then prayed the earls, and knights, and barons, who stood round Sir Beaumains, to spare the Red Knight's life.
	sir beaumains	Truly, I am loth to slay him, notwithstanding he hath done such shameful deeds. And inasmuch as what he did was done to please his
	sir beaumains	lady and to gain her love
	sir beaumains	I blame him less, and for your sakes I will release him. But on this agreement only shall he hold his life--that straightway he depart
	sir beaumains	into the castle
	sir beaumains	and yield him to the lady there, and make her such amends as she shall ask, for all the trespass he hath done upon her
	sir beaumains	lands; and afterwards
	sir beaumains	that he shall go unto King Arthur's court, and ask the pardon of Sir Lancelot and Sir Gawain for all the evil he hath done
	sir beaumains	against them.
	knight of the redlands	All this, Sir knight, I swear to do,
	narrator	and therewith he did him homage and fealty.
	narrator	Then came the damsel Linet to Sir Beaumains and the Knight of the Redlands, and disarmed them
	narrator	and staunched their wounds.
	narrator	And when the Knight of the Redlands had made amends for all his trespasses, he departed for the court.
	narrator	Then Sir Beaumains, being healed of his wounds, armed himself, and took his horse and spear and rode straight to the castle of Dame Lyones
	narrator	for greatly he desired to see her.
	narrator	But when he came to the gate they closed it fast, and pulled the drawbridge up.
	narrator	And as he marveled thereat, he saw the Lady Lyones standing at a window, who said,
	lady lyones	Go thy way as yet, Sir Beaumains, for thou shalt not wholly have my love until thou be among the worthiest knights of all the
	lady lyones	world. Go
	lady lyones	therefore, and labor yet in arms for twelve months more, and then return to me.
	sir beaumains	Alas! fair lady, I have scarce deserved this of thee, for sure I am that I have bought thy love with all the best blood
	sir beaumains	in my body.
	lady lyones	Be not aggrieved, fair knight, for none of thy service is forgot or lost. Twelve months will soon be passed in noble deeds; and trust
	lady lyones	that to my death I shall love thee and not another.
	narrator	With that she turned and left the window.
	narrator	So Sir Beaumains rode away from the castle very sorrowful at heart, and rode he knew not whither
	narrator	and lay that night in a poor man's cottage.
	narrator	On the morrow he went forward, and came at noon to a broad lake, and thereby he alighted
	narrator	being very sad and weary, and rested his head upon his shield, and told his dwarf to keep watch while he slept.
	narrator	Now, as soon as he had departed, the Lady Lyones repented, and greatly longed to see him back
	narrator	and asked her sister many times of what lineage he was; but the damsel would not tell her
	narrator	being bound by her oath to Sir Beaumains, and said his dwarf best knew.
	narrator	So she called Sir Gringamors, her brother, who dwelt with her, and prayed him to ride after Sir Beaumains till he found him sleeping
	narrator	and then to take his dwarf away and bring him back to her.
	narrator	Anon Sir Gringamors departed, and rode till he came to Sir Beaumains, and found him as he lay sleeping by the water-side.
	narrator	Then stepping stealthily behind the dwarf he caught him in his arms and rode off in haste.
	narrator	And though the dwarf cried loudly to his lord for help, and woke Sir Beaumains, yet, though he rode full quickly after him
	narrator	he could not overtake Sir Gringamors.
	narrator	When Dame Lyones saw her brother come back, she was passing glad of heart, and forthwith asked the dwarf his master's lineage.
	dwarf	He is a king's son, and his mother is King Arthur's sister. His name is Sir Gareth of Orkney
	dwarf	and he is brother to the good knight, Sir Gawain. But I pray you suffer me to go back to my lord
	dwarf	for truly he will never leave this country till he have me again.
	narrator	But when the Lady Lyones knew her deliverer was come of such a kingly stock, she longed more than ever to see him again.
	narrator	Now as Sir Beaumains rode in vain to rescue his dwarf, he came to a fair green road and met a poor man of the
	narrator	country
	narrator	and asked him had he seen a knight on a black horse, riding with a dwarf of a sad countenance behind him.
	poor man	Yea, said the man, I met with such a knight an hour agone, and his name is Sir Gringamors. He liveth at a castle two
	poor man	miles from hence; but he is a perilous knight
	poor man	and I counsel ye not to follow him save ye bear him goodwill.
	narrator	Then Sir Beaumains followed the path which the poor man showed him, and came to the castle.
	narrator	And riding to the gate in great anger, he drew his sword, and cried aloud,
	sir beaumains	Sir Gringamors, thou traitor! deliver me my dwarf again, or by my knighthood it shall be ill for thee!
	narrator	Then Sir Gringamors looked out of a window and said,
	sir gringamors	Sir Gareth of Orkney, leave thy boasting words, for thou wilt not get thy dwarf again.
	narrator	But the Lady Lyones said to her brother,
	lady lyones	Nay, brother, but I will that he have his dwarf, for he hath done much for me
	lady lyones	and delivered me from the Knight of the Redlands, and well do I love him above all other knights.
	narrator	So Sir Gringamors went down to Sir Gareth and cried him mercy, and prayed him to alight and take good cheer.
	narrator	Then he alighted, and his dwarf ran to him.
	narrator	And when he was in the hall came the Lady Lyones dressed royally like a princess.
	narrator	And Sir Gareth was right glad of heart when he saw her.
	lady lyones	Then she told him how she had made her brother take away his dwarf and bring him back to her.
	lady lyones	And then she promised him her love, and faithfully to cleave to him and none other all the days of her life.
	narrator	And so they plighted their troth to each other.
	narrator	Then Sir Gringamors prayed him to sojourn at the castle, which willing he did.
	sir gareth of orkney	For," said he, "I have promised to quit the court for twelve months, though sure I am that in the meanwhile I shall be sought
	sir gareth of orkney	and found by my lord King Arthur and many others.
	narrator	So he sojourned long at the castle.
	narrator	Anon the knights, Sir Perseant, Sir Perimones, and Sir Pertolope, whom Sir Gareth had overthrown, went to King Arthur's court with all the knights who
	narrator	did them service
	narrator	and told the king they had been conquered by a knight of his named Beaumains.
	narrator	And as they yet were talking, it was told the king there came another great lord with five hundred knights
	narrator	who, entering in, did homage, and declared himself to be the Knight of the Redlands.
	knight of the redlands	But my true name," said he, "is Ironside, and I am hither sent by one Sir Beaumains
	knight of the redlands	who conquered me, and charged me to yield unto your grace.
	king arthur	Thou art welcome," said King Arthur, "for thou hast been long a foe to me and mine
	king arthur	and truly I am much beholden to the knight who sent thee. And now, Sir Ironside, if thou wilt amend thy life and hold of
	king arthur	me
	king arthur	I will entreat thee as a friend, and make thee Knight of the Round Table; but thou mayst no more be a murderer of noble
	king arthur	knights.
	knight of the redlands	Then the Knight of the Redlands knelt to the king, and told him of his promise to Sir Beaumains to use never more such shameful
	knight of the redlands	customs; and how he had so done but at the prayer of a lady whom he loved.
	knight of the redlands	Then knelt he to Sir Lancelot and Sir Gawain, and prayed their pardon for the hatred he had borne them.
	narrator	But the king and all the court marveled greatly who Sir Beaumains was.
	king arthur	For," said the king, "he is a full noble knight.
	sir lancelot	Truly he is come of honorable blood, else had I not given him the order of knighthood; but he charged me that I should conceal
	sir lancelot	his secret.
	narrator	Now as they talked thus it was told King Arthur that his sister, the Queen of Orkney
	narrator	was come to the court with a great retinue of knights and ladies.
	narrator	Then was there great rejoicing, and the king rose and saluted his sister.
	narrator	And her sons, Sir Gawain, Sir Agravain, and Sir Gaheris knelt before her and asked her blessing
	narrator	for during fifteen years last past they had not seen her.
	queen of orkney	Anon she said, "Where is my youngest son, Sir Gareth? for I know that he was here a twelve-month with you
	queen of orkney	and that ye made a kitchen knave of him.
	narrator	Then the king and all the knights knew that Sir Beaumains and Sir Gareth were the same.
	king arthur	Truly," said the king, "I knew him not.
	sir gawain	Nor I," said Sir Gawain and both his brothers.
	king arthur	Then said the king, "God be thanked, fair sister, that he is proved as worshipful a knight as any now alive
	king arthur	and by the grace of Heaven he shall be found forthwith if he be anywhere within these seven realms.
	sir gawain	Lord, if ye will give us leave we will go seek him.
	sir lancelot	It were better that the king should send a messenger to Dame Lyones and pray her to come hither with all speed
	sir lancelot	and she will counsel where ye shall find him.
	king arthur	It is well said," replied the king; and sent a messenger quickly unto Dame Lyones.
	narrator	When she heard the message she promised she would come forthwith, and told Sir Gareth what the messenger had said
	narrator	and asked him what to do.
	sir gareth of orkney	I pray you," said he, "tell them not where I am, but when my lord King Arthur asketh for me
	sir gareth of orkney	advise him thus--that he proclaim a tournament before this castle on Assumption Day, and that the knight who proveth best shall win yourself and all
	sir gareth of orkney	your lands.
	narrator	So the Lady Lyones departed and came to King Arthur's court, and there was right nobly welcomed.
	narrator	And when they asked her where Sir Gareth was, she said she could not tell.
	lady lyones	But, lord," said she, "with thy goodwill I will proclaim a tournament before my castle on the Feast of the Assumption
	lady lyones	whereof the prize shall be myself and all my lands. Then if it be proclaimed that you
	lady lyones	lord, and your knights will be there, I will find knights on my side to fight you and yours
	lady lyones	and thus am I sure ye will hear tidings of Sir Gareth.
	king arthur	Be it so done," replied the king.
	narrator	So Sir Gareth sent messengers privily to Sir Perseant and Sir Ironside, and charged them to be ready on the day appointed
	narrator	with their companies of knights to aid him and his party against the king.
	narrator	And when they were arrived he said, "Now be ye well assured that we shall be matched with the best knights of the world
	narrator	and therefore must we gather all the good knights we can find."
	narrator	So proclamation was made throughout all England, Wales, Scotland, Ireland, and Cornwall, and in the out isles and other countries
	narrator	that at the Feast of the Assumption of our Lady, next coming, all knights who came to joust at Castle Perilous should make choice whether
	narrator	they would side with the king or with the castle.
	narrator	Then came many good knights on the side of the castle.
	narrator	Sir Epinogris, the son of the King of Northumberland, and Sir Palomedes the Saracen, and Sir Grummore Grummorsum
	narrator	a good knight of Scotland, and Sir Brian des Iles, a noble knight, and Sir Carados of the Tower Dolorous
	narrator	and Sir Tristram, who as yet was not a knight of the Round Table, and many others.
	narrator	But none among them knew Sir Gareth, for he took no more upon him than any mean person.
	narrator	And on King Arthur's side there came the King of Ireland and the King of Scotland, the noble prince Sir Galahaut
	narrator	Sir Gawain and his brothers Sir Agravain and Sir Gaheris, Sir Ewaine, Sir Tor, Sir Perceval, and Sir Lamoracke
	narrator	Sir Lancelot also and his kindred, Sir Lionel, Sir Ector, Sir Bors and Sir Bedivere, likewise Sir Key and the most part of the Table
	narrator	Round.
	narrator	The two queens also, Queen Guinevere and the Queen of Orkney, Sir Gareth's mother, came with the king.
	narrator	So there was a great array both within and without the castle, with all manner of feasting and minstrelsy.
	narrator	Now before the tournament began, Sir Gareth privily prayed Dame Lyones, Sir Gringamors, Sir Ironside, and Sir Perseant
	narrator	that they would in nowise disclose his name, nor make more of him than of any common knight.
	dame lyones	Dear lord, I pray thee take this ring, which hath the power to change the wearer's clothing into any color he may will
	dame lyones	and guardeth him from any loss of blood. But give it me again, I pray thee, when the tournament is done
	dame lyones	for it greatly increaseth my beauty whensoever I wear it.
	sir gareth of orkney	Gramercy, mine own lady, I wished for nothing better, for now I may be certainly disguised as long as I will.
	narrator	Then Sir Gringamors gave Sir Gareth a bay courser that was a passing good horse, with sure armor
	narrator	and a noble sword, won by his father from a heathen tyrant.
	narrator	And then every knight made him ready for the tournament.
	narrator	So on the day of the Assumption, when mass and matins were said, the heralds blew their trumpets and sounded for the tourney.
	narrator	Anon came out the knights of the castle and the knights of King Arthur, and matched themselves together.
	narrator	Then Sir Epinogris, son of the King of Northumberland, a knight of the castle, encountered Sir Ewaine
	narrator	and both broke off their spears short to their hands.
	narrator	Then came Sir Palomedes from the castle, and met Sir Gawain, and they so hardly smote each other
	narrator	that both knights and horses fell to the earth.
	narrator	Then Sir Tristram, from the castle, encountered with Sir Bedivere, and smote him to the earth, horse and man.
	narrator	Then the Knight of the Redlands and Sir Gareth met with Sir Bors and Sir Bleoberis; and the Knight of the Redlands and Sir Bors
	narrator	smote together so hard that their spears burst
	narrator	and their horses fell groveling to the ground.
	narrator	And Sir Bleoberis brake his spear upon Sir Gareth, but himself was hurled upon the ground.
	narrator	When Sir Galihodin saw that, he bade Sir Gareth keep him, but Sir Gareth lightly smote him to the earth.
	narrator	Then Sir Galihud got a spear to avenge his brother, but was served in like manner.
	narrator	And Sir Dinadam, and his brother La-cote-male-taile, and Sir Sagramour le Desirous, and Dodinas le Savage, he bore down all with one spear.
	narrator	When King Anguish of Ireland saw this, he marveled what that knight could be who seemed at one time green and at another blue; for
	narrator	so at every course he changed his color that none might know him.
	narrator	Then he ran towards him and encountered him, and Sir Gareth smote the king from his horse
	narrator	saddle and all.
	narrator	And in like manner he served the King of Scotland, and King Urience of Gore, and King Bagdemagus.
	narrator	Then Sir Galahaut, the noble prince, cried out, "Knight of the many colors! thou hast jousted well; now make thee ready to joust with me."
	narrator	When Sir Gareth heard him
	narrator	he took a great spear and met him swiftly.
	narrator	And the prince's spear broke off, but Sir Gareth smote him on the left side of the helm
	narrator	so that he reeled here and there, and had fallen down had not his men recovered him.
	king arthur	By my faith, that knight of the many colors is a good knight. I pray thee, Sir Lancelot du Lake, encounter with him.
	sir lancelot	Lord, by thy leave I will forbear. I find it in my heart to spare him at this time
	sir lancelot	for he hath done enough work for one day; and when a good knight doth so well it is no knightly part to hinder him
	sir lancelot	from this honor. And peradventure his quarrel is here to-day
	sir lancelot	and he may be the best beloved of the Lady Lyones of all that be here; for I see well he paineth and forceth himself
	sir lancelot	to do great deeds. Therefore
	sir lancelot	as for me, this day he shall have the honor; for though I were able to put him from it
	sir lancelot	I would not.
	king arthur	You speak well and truly,
	narrator	said the king.
	narrator	Then after the tilting, they drew swords, and there began a great tournament, and there Sir Lancelot did marvelous deeds of arms
	narrator	for first he fought with both Sir Tristram and Sir Carados, albeit they were the most perilous in all the world.
	narrator	Then came Sir Gareth and put them asunder, but would not smite a stroke against Sir Lancelot
	narrator	for by him he had been knighted.
	narrator	Anon Sir Gareth's helm had need of mending, and he rode aside to see to it and to drink water
	narrator	for he was sore athirst with all his mighty feats of strength.
	narrator	And while he drank, his dwarf said to him, "Give me your ring, lest ye lose it while ye drink." So Sir Gareth took it
	narrator	off.
	narrator	And when he had finished drinking, he rode back eagerly to the field, and in his haste forgot to take the ring again.
	narrator	Then all the people saw that he wore yellow armor.
	narrator	And King Arthur told a herald, "Ride and espy the cognizance of that brave knight, for I have asked many who he is
	narrator	and none can tell me."
	narrator	Then the herald rode near, and saw written round about his helmet in letters of gold, "Sir Gareth of Orkney." And instantly the herald cried
	narrator	his name aloud
	narrator	and all men pressed to see him.
	narrator	But when he saw he was discovered, he pushed with haste through all the crowd, and cried to his dwarf
	narrator	"Boy, thou hast beguiled me foully in keeping my ring; give it me again, that I may be hidden." And as soon as he had
	narrator	put it on
	narrator	his armor changed again, and no man knew where he had gone.
	narrator	Then he passed forth from the field; but Sir Gawain, his brother, rode after him.
	narrator	And when Sir Gareth had ridden far into the forest, he took off his ring, and sent it back by the dwarf to the Lady
	narrator	Lyones
	narrator	praying her to be true and faithful to him while he was away.
	narrator	Then rode Sir Gareth long through the forest, till night fell, and coming to a castle he went up to the gate
	narrator	and prayed the porter to let him in.
	porter	that he should not lodge there.
	sir gareth of orkney	Tell thy lord and lady that I am a knight of King Arthur's court, and for his sake I pray their shelter.
	narrator	With that the porter went to the duchess who owned the castle.
	duchess	Let him in straightway; for the king's sake he shall not be harborless!
	narrator	and went down to receive him.
	sir gareth of orkney	Fair lady, I pray you give me shelter for this night, and if there be here any champion or giant with whom I must needs
	sir gareth of orkney	fight
	sir gareth of orkney	spare me till to-morrow, when I and my horse shall have rested, for we are full weary.
	duchess	Sir knight, thou speakest boldly; for the lord of this castle is a foe to King Arthur and his court
	duchess	and if thou wilt rest here to-night thou must agree, that wheresoever thou mayest meet my lord
	duchess	thou must yield to him as a prisoner.
	sir gareth of orkney	What is thy lord's name, lady?
	duchess	The Duke de la Rowse.
	sir gareth of orkney	I will promise thee, to yield to him, if he promise to do me no harm; but if he refuse
	sir gareth of orkney	I will release myself with my sword and spear.
	duchess	It is well,
	narrator	said the duchess; and commanded the drawbridge to be let down.
	narrator	So he rode into the hall and alighted.
	narrator	And when he had taken off his armor, the duchess and her ladies made him passing good cheer.
	narrator	And after supper his bed was made in the hall, and there he rested that night.
	narrator	On the morrow he rose and heard mass, and having broken his fast, took his leave and departed.
	narrator	And as he rode past a certain mountain there met him a knight named Sir Bendelaine, and cried unto him
	narrator	"Thou shalt not pass unless thou joust with me or be my prisoner!"
	sir bendelaine	Thou shalt not pass unless thou joust with me or be my prisoner!
	sir gareth of orkney	Then will we joust.
	narrator	So they let their horses run at full speed, and Sir Gareth smote Sir Bendelaine through his body so sorely that he scarcely reached his
	narrator	castle ere he fell dead.
	narrator	And as Sir Gareth presently came by the castle, Sir Bendelaine's knights and servants rode out to revenge their lord.
	narrator	And twenty of them fell on him at once, although his spear was broken.
	narrator	But drawing his sword he put his shield before him.
	narrator	And though they brake their spears upon him, one and all, and sorely pressed on him, yet ever he defended himself like a noble knight.
	narrator	Anon, finding they could not overcome him, they agreed to slay his horse; and having killed it with their spears
	narrator	they set upon Sir Gareth as he fought on foot.
	narrator	But every one he struck he slew, and drave at them with fearful blows, till he had slain them all but four
	narrator	who fled.
	narrator	Then taking the horse of one of those that lay there dead, he rode upon his way.
	narrator	Anon he came to another castle and heard from within a sound as of many women moaning and weeping.
	narrator	Then said he to a page who stood without, "What noise is this I hear?"
	sir gareth of orkney	What noise is this I hear?
	page	Sir knight, there be within thirty ladies, the widows of thirty knights who have been slain by the lord of this castle.
	page	He is called the Brown Knight without pity, and is the most perilous knight living, wherefore I warn thee to flee.
	sir gareth of orkney	That will I never do, for I fear him not.
	narrator	Then the page saw the Brown Knight coming and said to Gareth, "Lo! my lord is near."
	narrator	So both knights made them ready and galloped their horses towards each other, and the Brown Knight brake his spear upon Sir Gareth's shield;
	narrator	but Sir Gareth smote him through the body so that he fell dead.
	narrator	At that he rode into the castle and told the ladies he had slain their foe.
	narrator	Then were they right glad of heart and made him all the cheer they could, and thanked him out of measure.
	narrator	But on the morrow as he went to mass he found the ladies weeping in the chapel upon divers tombs that were there.
	narrator	And he knew that in those tombs their husbands lay.
	sir gareth of orkney	Then he bade them be comforted, and with noble and high words he desired and prayed them all to be at Arthur's court on the
	sir gareth of orkney	next Feast of Pentecost.
	narrator	So he departed and rode past a mountain where was a goodly knight waiting, who said to him
	knight of the redlands	Abide, Sir knight, and joust with me!
	sir gareth of orkney	How are ye named?
	knight of the redlands	I am the Duke de la Rowse.
	sir gareth of orkney	In good sooth, not long ago I lodged within your castle, and there promised I would yield to you whenever we might meet.
	duke de la rowse	Art thou that proud knight, who was ready to fight with me? Guard thyself therefore and make ready.
	narrator	So they ran together, and Sir Gareth smote the duke from his horse.
	narrator	Then they alighted and drew their swords, and fought full sorely for the space of an hour; and at the last Sir Gareth smote the
	narrator	duke to the earth and would have slain him
	narrator	but he yielded.
	sir gareth of orkney	Then must ye go, to my lord King Arthur at the next Feast of Pentecost and say that I, Sir Gareth, sent ye.
	duke de la rowse	As ye will be it,
	narrator	and gave him up his shield for pledge.
	narrator	And as Sir Gareth rode alone he saw an armed knight coming towards him.
	narrator	And putting the duke's shield before him he rode fast to tilt with him;
	narrator	and so they ran together as it had been thunder, and brake their spears
	narrator	upon each other.
	narrator	Then fought they fiercely with their swords, and lashed
	narrator	together with such mighty strokes that blood ran to the ground on every
	narrator	side.
	narrator	And after they had fought together for two hours and more, it
	narrator	chanced the damsel Linet passed that way; and when she saw them, she
	linet	Sir Gawain and Sir Gareth, leave your fighting, for ye are brethren!
	narrator	At that they threw away their shields and swords, and took each other in
	narrator	their arms, and wept a great while ere they could speak.
	narrator	And each gave to the other the honor of the battle, and there was many a
	narrator	kind word between them.
	narrator	Then said Sir Gawain, "O my brother, for your
	sir gawain	sake have I had great sorrow and labor! But truly I would honor you
	sir gawain	though ye were not my brother, for ye have done great worship to King
	sir gawain	Arthur and his court, and sent more knights to him than any of the Table
	sir gawain	Round, except Sir Lancelot.
	narrator	Then the damsel Linet staunched their wounds, and their horses being
	narrator	weary she rode her palfrey to King Arthur and told him of this strange
	narrator	adventure.
	narrator	When she had told her tidings, the king himself mounted his
	narrator	horse and bade all come with him to meet them.
	narrator	So a great company of
	narrator	lords and ladies went forth to meet the brothers.
	narrator	And when King Arthur
	narrator	saw them he would have spoken hearty words, but for gladness he could
	narrator	not.
	narrator	And both Sir Gawain and Sir Gareth fell down at their uncle's knees
	narrator	and did him homage, and there was passing great joy and gladness among
	narrator	them all.
	narrator	Then said the king to the damsel Linet, "Why cometh not the Lady Lyones
	narrator	to visit her knight, Sir Gareth, who hath had such travail for her
	narrator	love?"
	narrator	"She knoweth not, my lord, that he is here," replied the damsel,
	narrator	"for truly she desireth greatly to see him." "Go ye and bring her
	narrator	hither," said the king. So the damsel rode to tell her sister where Sir
	narrator	Gareth was, and when she heard it she rejoiced full heartily and came
	narrator	with all the speed she could.
	narrator	And when Sir Gareth saw her, there was
	narrator	great joy and comfort between them.
	narrator	Then the king asked Sir Gareth whether he would have that lady for his
	narrator	wife?
	narrator	"My lord," replied Sir Gareth, "know well that I love her above
	sir gareth of orkney	all ladies living." "Now, fair lady," said King Arthur, "what say ye?
	narrator	"Most noble king," she answered, "my lord, Sir Gareth, is my first love
	narrator	and shall be my last, and if I may not have him for my husband I will
	narrator	have none."
	narrator	Then said the king to them, "Be well assured that for my
	narrator	crown I would not be the cause of parting your two hearts."
	narrator	Then was high preparation made for the marriage, for the king desired it
	narrator	should be at the Michaelmas next following, at Kinkenadon-by-the-Sea.
	narrator	So Sir Gareth sent out messages to all the knights whom he had overcome
	narrator	in battle that they should be there upon his marriage-day.
	narrator	Therefore, at the next Michaelmas, came a goodly company to
	narrator	Kinkenadon-by-the-Sea.
	narrator	And there did the Archbishop of Canterbury marry
	narrator	Sir Gareth and the Lady Lyones with all solemnity.
	narrator	And all the knights
	narrator	whom Sir Gareth had overcome were at the feast; and every manner of
	narrator	revels and games was held with music and minstrelsy.
	narrator	And there was a
	narrator	great jousting for three days.
	narrator	But because of his bride the king would
	narrator	not suffer Sir Gareth to joust.
	narrator	Then did King Arthur give great lands
	narrator	and fair, with store of gold, to Sir Gareth and his wife, that so they
	narrator	might live royally together to their lives' end.
