	narrator	XIV
	narrator	SIR LANCELOT AND THE FAIR ELAINE
	narrator	Now after the quest of the Sangreal was fulfilled and all the knights who were left alive were come again to the Round Table
	narrator	there was great joy in the court.
	narrator	And passing glad were King Arthur and Queen Guinevere to see Sir Lancelot and Sir Bors, for they had been long absent in that quest.
	narrator	And so greatly was Sir Lancelot's fame now spread abroad that many ladies and damsels daily resorted to him and besought him for their champion;
	narrator	and all right quarrels did he gladly undertake for the pleasure of our Lord Christ.
	narrator	And always as much as he might he withdrew him from the queen.
	narrator	Wherefore Queen Guinevere, who counted him for her own knight, grew wroth with him, and on a certain day she called him to her chamber
	narrator	and said thus:
	queen guinevere	Sir Lancelot, I daily see thy loyalty to me doth slack, for ever thou art absent from this court
	queen guinevere	and takest other ladies' quarrels on thee more than ever thou wert wont. Now do I understand thee
	queen guinevere	false knight, and therefore shall I never trust thee more. Depart now from my sight, and come no more within this court upon pain of
	queen guinevere	thy head.
	narrator	With that she turned from him and would hear no excuses.
	narrator	So Sir Lancelot departed in heaviness of heart, and calling Sir Bors, Sir Ector, and Sir Lionel
	narrator	he told them how the queen had dealt with him.
	sir bors	Fair sir, remember what honor ye have in this country, and how ye are called the noblest knight in the world; wherefore go not
	sir bors	for women are hasty, and do often what they sore repent of afterwards. Be ruled by my advice. Take horse and ride to the hermitage
	sir bors	beside Windsor
	sir bors	and there abide till I send ye better tidings.
	narrator	To that Sir Lancelot consented, and departed with a sorrowful countenance.
	narrator	Now when the queen heard of his leaving she was inwardly sorry, but made no show of grief
	narrator	bearing a proud visage outwardly.
	narrator	And on a certain day she made a costly banquet to all the knights of the Round Table
	narrator	to show she had as great joy in all others as in Sir Lancelot.
	narrator	And at the banquet were Sir Gawain, and his brothers Sir Agravaine, Sir Gaheris, and Sir Gareth; also Sir Modred
	narrator	Sir Bors, Sir Blamor, Sir Bleoberis, Sir Ector, Sir Lionel, Sir Palomedes, Sir Mador de la Port
	narrator	and his cousin Sir Patrice--a knight of Ireland, Sir Pinell le Savage, and many more.
	narrator	Now Sir Pinell hated Sir Gawain because he had slain one of his kinsmen by treason; and Sir Gawain had a great love for all
	narrator	kinds of fruit
	narrator	which, when Sir Pinell knew, he poisoned certain apples that were set upon the table, with intent to slay him.
	narrator	And so it chanced as they ate and made merry, Sir Patrice, who sat next to Sir Gawain
	narrator	took one of the poisoned apples and eat it, and when he had eaten he suddenly swelled up and fell down dead.
	narrator	At that every knight leapt from the board ashamed and enraged nigh out of their wits, for they knew not what to say
	narrator	yet seeing that the queen had made the banquet they all had suspicion of her.
	sir gawain	My lady the queen, I wit well this fruit was meant for me, for all men know my love for it
	sir gawain	and now had I been nearly slain; wherefore, I fear me, ye will be ashamed.
	sir mador de la port	This shall not end so; now have I lost a noble knight of my own blood, and for this despite and shame I will be
	sir mador de la port	revenged to the uttermost.
	narrator	Then he challenged Queen Guinevere concerning the death of his cousin, but she stood still, sore abashed
	narrator	and anon with her sorrow and dread, she swooned.
	narrator	At the noise and sudden cry came in King Arthur, and to him appealed Sir Mador, and impeached the queen.
	sir mador de la port	Fair lords, full sorely am I troubled at this matter, for I must be rightful judge, and therein it repenteth me I may not do
	sir mador de la port	battle for my wife
	sir mador de la port	for, as I deem, this deed was none of hers. But I suppose she will not lack a champion
	sir mador de la port	and some good knight surely will put his body in jeopardy to save her.
	narrator	But all who had been bidden to the banquet said they could not hold the queen excused
	narrator	or be her champions, for she had made the feast, and either by herself or servants must it have come.
	queen guinevere	Alas! I made this dinner for a good intent, and no evil, so God help me in my need.
	sir mador de la port	My lord the king, I require you heartily as you be a righteous king give me a day when I may have justice.
	king arthur	Well, I give ye this day fifteen days, when ye shall be ready and armed in the meadow beside Westminster
	king arthur	and if there be a knight to fight with you, God speed the right, and if not
	king arthur	then must my queen be burnt.
	narrator	When the king and queen were alone together he asked her how this case befell.
	queen guinevere	I wot not how or in what manner.
	king arthur	Where is Sir Lancelot? for he would not grudge to do battle for thee.
	queen guinevere	Sir, I cannot tell you, but all his kinsmen deem he is not in this realm.
	king arthur	These be sad tidings; I counsel ye to find Sir Bors, and pray him for Sir Lancelot's sake to do this battle for you.
	narrator	So the queen departed and sent for Sir Bors to her chamber, and besought his succor.
	sir bors	Madam, what would you have me do? for I may not with my honor take this matter on me
	sir bors	for I was at that same dinner, and all the other knights would have me ever in suspicion. Now do ye miss Sir Lancelot
	sir bors	for he would not have failed you in right nor yet in wrong, as ye have often proved
	sir bors	but now ye have driven him from the country.
	queen guinevere	Alas! fair knight, I put me wholly at your mercy, and all that is done amiss I will amend as ye will counsel me.
	narrator	And therewith she kneeled down upon both her knees before Sir Bors, and besought him to have mercy on her.
	narrator	Anon came in King Arthur also, and prayed him of his courtesy to help her, saying,
	king arthur	I require you for the love of Lancelot.
	narrator	My lord,
	sir bors	ye require the greatest thing of me that any man can ask, for if I do this battle for the queen I shall anger all
	sir bors	my fellows of the Table Round; nevertheless
	sir bors	for my lord Sir Lancelot's sake, and for yours, I will that day be the queen's champion
	sir bors	unless there chance to come a better knight than I am to do battle for her.
	narrator	And this he promised on his faith.
	narrator	Then were the king and queen passing glad, and thanked him heartily, and so departed.
	narrator	But Sir Bors rode in secret to the hermitage where Sir Lancelot was, and told him all these tidings.
	sir lancelot	It has chanced as I would have it,
	sir lancelot	yet make ye ready for the battle, but tarry till ye see me come.
	sir bors	Sir,
	sir bors	doubt not but ye shall have your will.
	narrator	But many of the knights were greatly wroth with him when they heard he was to be the queen's champion
	narrator	for there were few in the court but deemed her guilty.
	sir bors	Wit ye will, fair lords, it were a shame to us all to suffer so fair and noble a lady to be burnt for lack
	sir bors	of a champion
	sir bors	for ever hath she proved herself a lover of good knights; wherefore I doubt not she is guiltless of this treason.
	narrator	At that were some well pleased, but others rested passing wroth.
	narrator	And when the day was come, the king and queen and all the knights went to the meadow beside Westminster
	narrator	where the battle should be fought.
	narrator	Then the queen was put in ward, and a great fire was made round the iron stake
	narrator	where she must be burnt if Sir Mador won the day.
	narrator	So when the heralds blew, Sir Mador rode forth, and took oath that Queen Guinevere was guilty of Sir Patrice's death
	narrator	and his oath he would prove with his body against any who would say the contrary.
	narrator	Then came forth Sir Bors, and said,
	sir bors	Queen Guinevere is in the right, and that will I prove with my hands.
	narrator	With that they both departed to their tents to make ready for the battle.
	narrator	But Sir Bors tarried long, hoping Sir Lancelot would come, till Sir Mador cried out to King Arthur
	sir mador de la port	Bid thy champion come forth, unless he dare not.
	narrator	Then was Sir Bors ashamed, and took his horse and rode to the end of the lists.
	narrator	But ere he could meet Sir Mador he was aware of a knight upon a white horse
	narrator	armed at all points, and with a strange shield, who rode to him and said,
	knight	I pray you withdraw from this quarrel, for it is mine, and I have ridden far to fight in it.
	narrator	Thereat Sir Bors rode to King Arthur, and told him that another knight was come who would do battle for the queen.
	king arthur	Who is he?
	sir bors	I may not tell you,
	sir bors	but he made a covenant with me to be here to-day, wherefore I am discharged.
	narrator	Then the king called that knight, and asked him if he would fight for the queen.
	knight	Therefore came I hither, Sir king,
	knight	but let us tarry no longer, for anon I have other matters to do.
	knight	But wit ye well,
	knight	it is shame to ye for such a courteous queen to suffer this dishonor.
	narrator	And all men marveled who this knight might be, for none knew him save Sir Bors.
	narrator	Then Sir Mador and the knight rode to either end of the lists, and couching their spears
	narrator	ran one against the other with all their might; and Sir Mador's spear broke short, but the strange knight bore both him and his horse
	narrator	down to the ground.
	narrator	Then lightly they leaped from their saddles and drew their swords, and so came eagerly to the battle
	narrator	and either gave the other many sad strokes and sore and deep wounds.
	narrator	Thus they fought nigh an hour, for Sir Mador was a full strong and valiant knight.
	narrator	But at last the strange knight smote him to the earth, and gave him such a buffet on the helm as wellnigh killed him.
	narrator	Then did Sir Mador yield, and prayed his life.
	knight	I will but grant it thee,
	knight	if thou wilt release the queen from this quarrel forever, and promise that no mention shall be made upon Sir Patrice's tomb that ever she
	knight	consented to that treason.
	sir mador de la port	All this shall be done,
	narrator	Then the knights parters took up Sir Mador and led him to his tent, and the other knight went straight to the stair foot of
	narrator	King Arthur's throne; and by that time was the queen come to the king again
	narrator	and kissed him lovingly.
	narrator	Then both the king and she stooped down, and thanked the knight, and prayed him to put off his helm and rest him
	narrator	and to take a cup of wine.
	narrator	And when he put his helmet off to drink, all people saw it was Sir Lancelot.
	narrator	But when the queen beheld him she sank almost to the ground weeping for sorrow and for joy
	narrator	that he had done her such great goodness when she had showed him such unkindness.
	narrator	Then the knights of his blood gathered round him, and there was great joy and mirth in the court.
	narrator	And Sir Mador and Sir Lancelot were soon healed of their wounds; and not long after came the Lady of the Lake to the court
	narrator	and told all there by her enchantments how Sir Pinell, and not the queen, was guilty of Sir Patrice's death.
	narrator	Whereat the queen was held excused of all men, and Sir Pinell fled the country.
	narrator	So Sir Patrice was buried in the church of Winchester, and it was written on his tomb that Sir Pinell slew him with a poisoned
	narrator	apple
	narrator	in error for Sir Gawain.
	narrator	Then, through Sir Lancelot's favor, the queen was reconciled to Sir Mador, and all was forgiven.
	narrator	Now fifteen days before the Feast of the Assumption of our Lady, the king proclaimed a tourney to be held that feast-day at Camelot
	narrator	whereat himself and the King of Scotland would joust with all who should come against them.
	narrator	So thither went the King of North Wales, and King Anguish of Ireland, and Sir Galahaut the noble prince
	narrator	and many other nobles of divers countries.
	narrator	And King Arthur made ready to go, and would have had the queen go with him, but she said that she was sick.
	narrator	Sir Lancelot, also, made excuses,
	sir lancelot	saying he was not yet whole of his wounds.
	narrator	At that the king was passing heavy and grieved, and so departed alone towards Camelot.
	narrator	And by the way he lodged in a town called Astolat, and lay that night in the castle.
	narrator	As soon as he had gone, Sir Lancelot said to the queen, "This night I will rest
	narrator	and to-morrow betimes will I take my way to Camelot; for at these jousts I will be against the king and his fellowship."
	queen guinevere	Ye may do as ye list, but by my counsel ye will not be against the king
	queen guinevere	for in his company are many hardy knights, as ye well know.
	sir lancelot	Madam, I pray ye be not displeased with me, for I will take the adventure that God may send me.
	narrator	And on the morrow he went to the church and heard mass, and took his leave of the queen
	narrator	and so departed.
	narrator	Then he rode long till he came to Astolat, and there lodged at the castle of an old baron called Sir Bernard of Astolat
	narrator	which was near the castle where King Arthur lodged.
	narrator	And as Sir Lancelot entered the king espied him, and knew him.
	narrator	Then said he to the knights, "I have just seen a knight who will fight full well at the joust toward which we go."
	narrator	"Who is it?" asked they.
	king arthur	As yet ye shall not know, he answered smiling.
	narrator	When Sir Lancelot was in his chamber unarming the old baron came to him, saluting him, though as yet he knew not who he was.
	narrator	Now Sir Bernard had a daughter passing beautiful, called the Fair Maid of Astolat, and when she saw Sir Lancelot she loved him from that
	narrator	instant with her whole heart
	narrator	and could not stay from gazing on him.
	narrator	On the morrow, Sir Lancelot asked the old baron to lend him a strange shield.
	narrator	"For," said he, "I would be unknown."
	sir bernard of astolat	Sir, ye shall have your desire, for here is the shield of my eldest son, Sir Torre
	sir bernard of astolat	who was hurt the day he was made knight, so that he cannot ride; and his shield
	sir bernard of astolat	therefore, is not known. And, if it please you, my youngest son, Sir Lavaine, shall ride with you to the jousts
	sir bernard of astolat	for he is of his age full strong and mighty; and I deem ye be a noble knight
	sir bernard of astolat	wherefore I pray ye tell me your name.
	sir lancelot	As to that, ye must hold me excused at this time, but if I speed well at the jousts
	sir lancelot	I will come again and tell you; but in anywise let me have your son, Sir Lavaine
	sir lancelot	with me, and lend me his brother's shield.
	narrator	Then, ere they departed, came Elaine, the baron's daughter, and said to Sir Lancelot, "I pray thee
	narrator	gentle knight, to wear my token at to-morrow's tourney."
	sir lancelot	If I should grant you that, fair damsel, ye might say that I did more for you than ever I have done for lady or
	sir lancelot	damsel.
	narrator	Then he bethought him that if he granted her request he would be the more disguised, for never before had he worn any lady's token.
	narrator	So anon he said, "Fair damsel, I will wear thy token on my helmet if thou wilt show it me."
	narrator	Thereat was she passing glad, and brought him a scarlet sleeve broidered with pearls, which Sir Lancelot took
	narrator	and put upon his helm.
	narrator	Then he prayed her to keep his shield for him until he came again, and taking Sir Torre's shield instead
	narrator	rode forth with Sir Lavaine towards Camelot.
	narrator	On the morrow the trumpets blew for the tourney, and there was a great press of dukes and earls and barons and many noble knights;
	narrator	and King Arthur sat in a gallery to behold who did the best.
	narrator	So the King of Scotland and his knights, and King Anguish of Ireland rode forth on King Arthur's side; and against them came the King
	narrator	of North Wales
	narrator	the King of a Hundred Knights, the King of Northumberland, and the noble prince Sir Galahaut.
	narrator	But Sir Lancelot and Sir Lavaine rode into a little wood behind the party which was against King Arthur
	narrator	to watch which side should prove the weakest.
	narrator	Then was there a strong fight between the two parties, for the King of a Hundred Knights smote down the King of Scotland; and Sir
	narrator	Palomedes
	narrator	who was on King Arthur's side, overthrew Sir Galahaut.
	narrator	Then came fifteen Knights of the Round Table and beat back the Kings of Northumberland and North Wales with their knights.
	sir lancelot	Now, if ye will help me, ye shall see yonder fellowship go back as fast as they came.
	sir lavaine	Sir, I will do what I can.
	narrator	Then they rode together into the thickest of the press, and there, with one spear, Sir Lancelot smote down five Knights of the Round Table
	narrator	one after other, and Sir Lavaine overthrew two.
	narrator	And taking another spear, for his own was broken, Sir Lancelot smote down four more knights, and Sir Lavaine a fifth.
	narrator	Then, drawing his sword, Sir Lancelot fought fiercely on the right hand and the left, and unhorsed Sir Safire
	narrator	Sir Epinogris, and Sir Galleron.
	narrator	At that the Knights of the Round Table withdrew themselves as well as they were able.
	sir gawain	Now, mercy, what knight is that who doth such marvelous deeds of arms? I should deem him by his force to be Sir Lancelot
	sir gawain	but that he wears a lady's token on his helm as never Lancelot doth.
	king arthur	Let him be, he will be better known, and do more ere he depart.
	narrator	Thus the party against King Arthur prospered at this time, and his knights were sore ashamed.
	narrator	Then Sir Bors, Sir Ector, and Sir Lionel called together the knights of their blood, nine in number
	narrator	and agreed to join together in one band against the two strange knights.
	narrator	So they encountered Sir Lancelot all at once, and by main force smote his horse to the ground; and by misfortune Sir Bors struck Sir
	narrator	Lancelot through the shield into the side
	narrator	and the spear broke off and left the head in the wound.
	narrator	When Sir Lavaine saw that, he ran to the King of Scotland and struck him off his horse
	narrator	and brought it to Sir Lancelot, and helped him to mount.
	narrator	Then Sir Lancelot bore Sir Bors and his horse to the ground, and in like manner served Sir Ector and Sir Lionel; and turning upon
	narrator	three other knights he smote them down also; while Sir Lavaine did many gallant deeds.
	narrator	But feeling himself now sorely wounded Sir Lancelot drew his sword, and proffered to fight with Sir Bors
	narrator	who, by this time, was mounted anew.
	narrator	And as they met, Sir Ector and Sir Lionel came also, and the swords of all three drave fiercely against him.
	narrator	When he felt their buffets, and his wound that was so grievous, he determined to do all his best while he could yet endure
	narrator	and smote Sir Bors a blow that bent his head down nearly to the ground and razed his helmet off and pulled him from his
	narrator	horse.
	narrator	Then rushing at Sir Ector and Sir Lionel, he smote them down, and might have slain all three
	narrator	but when he saw their faces his heart forbade him.
	narrator	Leaving them, therefore, on the field, he hurled into the thickest of the press, and did such feats of arms as never were beheld before.
	narrator	And Sir Lavaine was with him through it all, and overthrew ten knights; but Sir Lancelot smote down more than thirty
	narrator	and most of them Knights of the Round Table.
	narrator	Then the king ordered the trumpets to blow for the end of the tourney, and the prize to be given by the heralds to the
	narrator	knight with the white shield who bore the red sleeve.
	narrator	But ere Sir Lancelot was found by the heralds, came the King of the Hundred Knights, the King of North Wales
	narrator	the King of Northumberland, and Sir Galahaut, and said to him, "Fair knight, God bless thee, for much have ye done this day for us;
	narrator	wherefore we pray ye come with us and receive the honor and the prize as ye have worshipfully deserved it."
	sir lancelot	My fair lords, wit ye well if I have deserved thanks, I have sore bought them, for I am like never to escape with my
	sir lancelot	life; therefore pray ye let me depart
	sir lancelot	for I am sore hurt. I take no thought of honor, for I had rather rest me than be lord of all the world.
	narrator	And therewith he groaned piteously, and rode a great gallop away from them.
	narrator	And Sir Lavaine rode after him, sad at heart, for the broken spear still stuck fast in Sir Lancelot's side
	narrator	and the blood streamed sorely from the wound.
	narrator	Anon they came near a wood more than a mile from the lists, where he knew he could be hidden.
	sir lancelot	O gentle knight, help me to pull out this spear-head from my side, for the pain thereof nigh killeth me.
	sir lavaine	Dear lord, I fain would help ye; but I dread to draw it forth, lest ye should die for loss of blood.
	sir lancelot	I charge you as you love me, draw it out.
	narrator	So they dismounted, and with a mighty wrench Sir Lavaine drew the spear forth from Sir Lancelot's side; whereat he gave a marvelous great shriek
	narrator	and ghastly groan
	narrator	and all his blood leaped forth in a full stream.
	narrator	Then he sank swooning to the earth, with a visage pale as death.
	sir lavaine	Alas! what shall I do now?
	narrator	And then he turned his master's face towards the wind, and sat by him nigh half an hour while he lay quiet as one dead.
	narrator	But at the last he lifted up his eyes, and said, "I pray ye bear me on my horse again
	narrator	and lead me to a hermit who dwelleth within two miles hence, for he was formerly a knight of Arthur's court
	narrator	and now hath mighty skill in medicine and herbs."
	narrator	So with great pain Sir Lavaine got him to his horse, and led him to the hermitage within the wood
	narrator	beside a stream.
	narrator	Then knocked he with his spear upon the door, and prayed to enter.
	narrator	At that a child came out, to whom he said, "Fair child, pray the good man thy master to come hither and let in a
	narrator	knight who is sore wounded."
	narrator	Anon came out the knight-hermit, whose name was Sir Baldwin, and asked, "Who is this wounded knight?"
	sir lavaine	I know not, save that he is the noblest knight I ever met with, and hath done this day such marvelous deeds of arms against
	sir lavaine	King Arthur that he hath won the prize of the tourney.
	narrator	Then the hermit gazed long on Sir Lancelot, and hardly knew him, so pale he was with bleeding
	narrator	yet said he at the last, "Who art thou, lord?"
	sir lancelot	I am a stranger knight adventurous, who laboreth through many realms to win worship.
	sir baldwin	Why hidest thou thy name, dear lord, from me? for in sooth I know thee now to be the noblest knight in all the world--my
	sir baldwin	lord Sir Lancelot du Lake
	sir baldwin	with whom I long had fellowship at the Round Table.
	sir lancelot	Since ye know me, fair sir, I pray ye, for Christ's sake, to help me if ye may.
	sir baldwin	Doubt not, that ye shall live and fare right well.
	narrator	Then he staunched his wound, and gave him strong medicines and cordials till he was refreshed from his faintness and came to himself again.
	narrator	Now after the jousting was done King Arthur held a feast, and asked to see the knight with the red sleeve that he might take
	narrator	the prize.
	narrator	So they told him how that knight had ridden from the field wounded nigh to death.
	narrator	"These be the worst tidings I have heard for many years," cried out the king; "I would not for my kingdom he were slain."
	narrator	Then all men asked, "Know ye him, lord?"
	king arthur	I may not tell ye at this time; but would to God we had good tidings of him.
	narrator	Then Sir Gawain prayed leave to go and seek that knight, which the king gladly gave him.
	narrator	So forthwith he mounted and rode many leagues round Camelot, but could hear no tidings.
	narrator	Within two days thereafter King Arthur and his knights returned from Camelot, and Sir Gawain chanced to lodge at Astolat
	narrator	in the house of Sir Bernard.
	narrator	And there came in the fair Elaine to him, and prayed him news of the tournament, and who won the prize.
	narrator	"A knight with a white shield," said he, "who bare a red sleeve in his helm, smote down all comers and won the day."
	narrator	At that the visage of Elaine changed suddenly from white to red, and heartily she thanked our Lady.
	sir gawain	Know ye that knight?" and urged her till she told him that it was her sleeve he wore.
	narrator	So Sir Gawain knew it was for love that she had given it; and when he heard she kept his proper shield he prayed to
	narrator	see it.
	narrator	As soon as it was brought he saw Sir Lancelot's arms thereon, and cried, "Alas! now am I heavier of heart than ever yet."
	fair elaine	Wherefore?
	sir lancelot du lake	Fair damsel, know ye not that the knight ye love is of all knights the noblest in the world
	sir lancelot du lake	Sir Lancelot du Lake? With all my heart I pray ye may have joy of each other
	sir lancelot du lake	but hardly dare I think that ye shall see him in this world again, for he is so sore wounded he may scarce live
	sir lancelot du lake	and is gone out of sight where none can find him.
	narrator	Then was Elaine nigh mad with grief and sorrow, and with piteous words she prayed her father that she might go seek Sir Lancelot and
	narrator	her brother.
	narrator	So in the end her father gave her leave, and she departed.
	narrator	And on the morrow came Sir Gawain to the court, and told how he had found Sir Lancelot's shield in Elaine's keeping
	narrator	and how it was her sleeve which he had worn; whereat all marveled, for Sir Lancelot had done for her more than he had ever
	narrator	done for any woman.
	narrator	But when Queen Guinevere heard it she was beside herself with wrath, and sending privily for Sir Bors
	narrator	who sorrowed sorely that through him Sir Lancelot had been hurt--
	queen guinevere	Have ye now heard, how falsely Sir Lancelot hath betrayed me?
	sir bors	I beseech thee, madam, speak not so, for else I may not hear thee.
	queen guinevere	Shall I not call him traitor, who hath worn another lady's token at the jousting?
	sir bors	Be sure he did it, madam, for no ill intent, but that he might be better hidden, for never did he in that wise before.
	queen guinevere	Now shame on him, and thee who wouldest help him.
	sir bors	Madam, say what ye will; but I must haste to seek him, and God send me soon good tidings of him.
	narrator	So with that he departed to find Sir Lancelot.
	narrator	Now Elaine had ridden with full haste from Astolat, and come to Camelot, and there she sought throughout the country for any news of Lancelot.
	narrator	And so it chanced that Sir Lavaine was riding near the hermitage to exercise his horse, and when she saw him she ran up and
	narrator	cried aloud
	elaine	How doth my lord Sir Lancelot fare?
	sir lavaine	How know ye my lord's name, fair sister?
	narrator	So she told him how Sir Gawain had lodged with Sir Bernard, and knew Sir Lancelot's shield.
	elaine	Then prayed she to see his lord forthwith, and when she came to the hermitage and found him lying there sore sick and bleeding
	elaine	she swooned for sorrow. Anon, as she revived, Sir Lancelot kissed her, and said,
	sir lancelot du lake	Fair maid, I pray ye take comfort, for, by God's grace, I shall be shortly whole of this wound
	sir lancelot du lake	and if ye be come to tend me, I am heartily bounden to your great kindness.
	narrator	Yet was he sore vexed to hear Sir Gawain had discovered him, for he knew Queen Guinevere would be full wroth because of the red
	narrator	sleeve.
	narrator	So Elaine rested in the hermitage, and ever night and day she watched and waited on Sir Lancelot
	narrator	and would let none other tend him.
	narrator	And as she saw him more, the more she set her love upon him, and could by no means withdraw it.
	narrator	Then said Sir Lancelot to Sir Lavaine,
	sir lancelot du lake	I pray thee set some to watch for the good knight Sir Bors, for as he hurt me, so will he surely seek for me.
	narrator	Now Sir Bors by this time had come to Camelot, and was seeking for Sir Lancelot everywhere
	narrator	so Sir Lavaine soon found him, and brought him to the hermitage.
	narrator	And when he saw Sir Lancelot pale and feeble, he wept for pity and sorrow that he had given him that grievous wound.
	sir bors	God send thee a right speedy cure, dear lord; for I am of all men most unhappy to have wounded thee
	sir bors	who art our leader, and the noblest knight in all the world.
	sir lancelot du lake	Fair cousin, be comforted, for I have but gained what I sought, and it was through pride that I was hurt
	sir lancelot du lake	for had I warned ye of my coming it had not been; wherefore let us speak of other things.
	narrator	So they talked long together, and Sir Bors told him of the queen's anger.
	narrator	Then he asked Sir Lancelot,
	sir bors	Was it from this maid who tendeth you so lovingly ye had the token?
	sir lancelot du lake	Yea, said Sir Lancelot; and would I could persuade her to withdraw her love from me.
	sir bors	Why should ye do so? for she is passing fair and loving. I would to heaven ye could love her.
	sir lancelot du lake	That may not be, replied he; but it repenteth me in sooth to grieve her.
	narrator	Then they talked of other matters, and of the great jousting at Allhallowtide next coming, between King Arthur and the King of North Wales.
	sir lancelot du lake	Abide with me till then, for by that time I trust to be all whole again, and we will go together.
	narrator	So Elaine daily and nightly tending him, within a month he felt so strong he deemed himself full cured.
	narrator	Then on a day, when Sir Bors and Sir Lavaine were from the hermitage, and the knight-hermit also was gone forth
	narrator	Sir Lancelot prayed Elaine to bring him some herbs from the forest.
	narrator	When she was gone he rose and made haste to arm himself, and try if he were whole enough to joust
	narrator	and mounted on his horse, which was fresh with lack of labor for so long a time.
	narrator	But when he set his spear in the rest and tried his armor, the horse bounded and leapt beneath him
	narrator	so that Sir Lancelot strained to keep him back.
	narrator	And therewith his wound, which was not wholly healed, burst forth again, and with a mighty groan he sank down swooning on the ground.
	narrator	At that came fair Elaine and wept and piteously moaned to see him lying so.
	narrator	And when Sir Bors and Sir Lavaine came back, she called them traitors to let him rise
	narrator	or to know any rumor of the tournament.
	narrator	Anon the hermit returned and was wroth to see Sir Lancelot risen, but within a while he recovered him from his swoon and staunched the
	narrator	wound.
	narrator	Then Sir Lancelot told him how he had risen of his own will to assay his strength for the tournament.
	narrator	But the hermit bade him rest and let Sir Bors go alone, for else would he sorely peril his life.
	narrator	And Elaine, with tears, prayed him in the same wise, so that Sir Lancelot in the end consented.
	narrator	So Sir Bors departed to the tournament, and there he did such feats of arms that the prize was given between him and Sir Gawain
	narrator	who did like valiantly.
	narrator	And when all was over he came back and told Sir Lancelot, and found him so nigh well that he could rise and walk.
	narrator	And within a while thereafter he departed from the hermitage and went with Sir Bors, Sir Lavaine
	narrator	and fair Elaine to Astolat, where Sir Bernard joyfully received them.
	narrator	But after they had lodged there a few days Sir Lancelot and Sir Bors must needs depart and return to King Arthur's court.
	narrator	So when Elaine knew Sir Lancelot must go, she came to him and said,
	elaine	Have mercy on me, fair knight, and let me not die for your love.
	narrator	Then said Sir Lancelot, very sad at heart,
	sir lancelot	Fair maid, what would ye that I should do for you?
	narrator	"If I may not be your wife, dear lord," she answered,
	elaine	I must die.
	narrator	"Alas!" said he, "I pray heaven that may not be; for in sooth I may not be your husband. But fain would I show ye
	narrator	what thankfulness I can for all your love and kindness to me. And ever will I be your knight
	narrator	fair maiden; and if it chance that ye shall ever wed some noble knight, right heartily will I give ye such a dower as half
	narrator	my lands will bring."
	narrator	"Alas! what shall that aid me?" answered she; "for I must die," and therewith she fell to the earth in a deep swoon.
	narrator	Then was Sir Lancelot passing heavy of heart, and said to Sir Bernard and Sir Lavaine,
	sir lancelot	What shall I do for her?
	narrator	"Alas!" said Sir Bernard, "I know well that she will die for your sake."
	narrator	And Sir Lavaine said, "I marvel not that she so sorely mourneth your departure, for truly I do as she doth
	narrator	and since I once have seen you, lord, I cannot leave you."
	narrator	So anon, with a full sorrowful heart, Sir Lancelot took his leave, and Sir Lavaine rode with him to the court.
	narrator	And King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table joyed greatly to see him whole of his wound
	narrator	but Queen Guinevere was sorely wroth, and neither spake with him nor greeted him.
	narrator	Now when Sir Lancelot had departed, the Maid of Astolat could neither eat, nor drink, nor sleep for sorrow; and having thus endured ten days
	narrator	she felt within herself that she must die.
	narrator	Then sent she for a holy man, and was shriven and received the sacrament.
	narrator	But when he told her she must leave her earthly thoughts, she answered,
	elaine	Am I not an earthly woman? What sin is it to love the noblest knight of all the world? And
	elaine	by my truth, I am not able to withstand the love whereof I die; wherefore, I pray the High Father of Heaven to have mercy
	elaine	on my soul.
	narrator	Then she besought Sir Bernard to indite a letter as she should devise, and said,
	elaine	When I am dead put this within my hand, and dress me in my fairest clothes, and lay me in a barge all covered with
	elaine	black samite
	elaine	and steer it down the river till it reach the court. Thus, father, I beseech thee let it be.
	narrator	Then, full of grief, he promised her it should be so.
	narrator	And anon she died, and all the household made a bitter lamentation over her.
	narrator	Then did they as she had desired, and laid her body, richly dressed, upon a bed within the barge
	narrator	and a trusty servant steered it down the river towards the court.
	narrator	Now King Arthur and Queen Guinevere sat at a window of the palace, and saw the barge come floating with the tide
	narrator	and marveled what was laid therein, and sent a messenger to see, who, soon returning, prayed them to come forth.
	narrator	When they came to the shore they marveled greatly, and the king asked of the serving-man who steered the barge what this might mean.
	narrator	But he made signs that he was dumb, and pointed to the letter in the damsel's hands.
	narrator	So King Arthur took the letter from the hand of the corpse, and found thereon written, "To the noble knight
	narrator	Sir Lancelot du Lake."
	narrator	Then was Sir Lancelot sent for, and the letter read aloud by a clerk, and thus it was written:--
	narrator	"Most noble knight, my lord Sir Lancelot, now hath death forever parted us. I, whom men call the Maid of Astolat
	narrator	set my love upon you, and have died for your sake. This is my last request, that ye pray for my soul and give me
	narrator	burial. Grant me this
	narrator	Sir Lancelot, as thou art a peerless knight."
	narrator	At these words the queen and all the knights wept sore for pity.
	narrator	Then said Sir Lancelot,
	sir lancelot	My lord, I am right heavy for the death of this fair damsel; and God knoweth that right unwillingly I caused it
	sir lancelot	for she was good as she was fair, and much was I beholden to her; but she loved me beyond measure
	sir lancelot	and asked me that I could not give her.
	narrator	"Ye might have shown her gentleness enough to save her life," answered the queen.
	narrator	"Madam," said he, "she would but be repaid by my taking her to wife, and that I could not grant her
	narrator	for love cometh of the heart and not by constraint."
	narrator	"That is true," said the king; "for love is free."
	narrator	"I pray you," said Sir Lancelot, "let me now grant her last asking, to be buried by me."
	narrator	So on the morrow, he caused her body to be buried richly and solemnly, and ordained masses for her soul
	narrator	and made great sorrow over her.
	narrator	Then the queen sent for Sir Lancelot, and prayed his pardon for her wrath against him without cause.
	narrator	"This is not the first time it hath been so," answered he; "yet must I ever bear with ye
	narrator	and so do I now forgive you."
	narrator	So Queen Guinevere and Sir Lancelot were made friends again; but anon such favor did she show him
	narrator	as in the end brought many evils on them both and all the realm.
