	narrator	CHAPTER IX
	narrator	Letter, Mina Harker to Lucy Westenra.
	narrator	"Buda-Pesth, 24 August."
	mina harker	My dearest Lucy,
	mina harker	I know you will be anxious to hear all that has happened since we parted at the railway station at Whitby. Well, my dear, I got to Hull all right, and caught the boat to Hamburg, and then the train on here. I feel that I can hardly recall anything of the journey, except that I knew I was coming to Jonathan, and, that as I should have to do some nursing, I had better get all the sleep I could.
	mina harker	I found my dear one, oh, so thin and pale and weak-looking. All the resolution has gone out of his dear eyes, and that quiet dignity which I told you was in his face has vanished. He is only a wreck of himself, and he does not remember anything that has happened to him for a long time past. At least, he wants me to believe so, and I shall never ask. He has had some terrible shock, and I fear it might tax his poor brain if he were to try to recall it. Sister Agatha, who is a good creature and a born nurse, tells me that he raved of dreadful things whilst he was off his head. I wanted her to tell me what they were; but she would only cross herself, and say she would never tell; that the ravings of the sick were the secrets of God, and that if a nurse through her vocation should hear them, she should respect her trust. She is a sweet, good soul, and the next day, when she saw I was troubled, she opened up the subject again, and after saying that she could never mention what my poor dear raved about, added:
	sister agatha	I can tell you this much, my dear: that it was not about anything which he has done wrong himself; and you, as his wife to be, have no cause to be concerned. He has not forgotten you or what he owes to you. His fear was of great and terrible things, which no mortal can treat of.
	mina harker	I do believe the dear soul thought I might be jealous lest my poor dear should have fallen in love with any other girl. The idea of my being jealous about Jonathan! And yet, my dear, let me whisper, I felt a thrill of joy through me when I knew that no other woman was a cause of trouble.
	narrator	I am now sitting by his bedside, where I can see his face while he sleeps.
	narrator	He is waking!
	narrator	When he woke he asked me for his coat, as he wanted to get something from the pocket; I asked Sister Agatha
	narrator	and she brought all his things.
	narrator	I saw that amongst them was his note-book, and was going to ask him to let me look at it--for I knew then that I might find some clue to his trouble--but I suppose he must have seen my wish in my eyes
	narrator	for he sent me over to the window, saying he wanted to be quite alone for a moment.
	narrator	Then he called me back, and when I came he had his hand over the note-book, and he said to me very solemnly:
	narrator	‘Wilhelmina’--I knew then that he was in deadly earnest, for he has never called me by that name since he asked me to marry him--
	jonathan harker	you know, dear, my ideas of the trust between husband and wife: there should be no secret, no concealment.
	jonathan harker	I have had a great shock, and when I try to think of what it is I feel my head spin round, and I do not know if it was all real or the dreaming of a madman.
	jonathan harker	You know I have had brain fever, and that is to be mad.
	jonathan harker	The secret is here, and I do not want to know it.
	jonathan harker	I want to take up my life here, with our marriage.
	narrator	For, my dear, we had decided to be married as soon as the formalities are complete.
	jonathan harker	Are you willing, Wilhelmina, to share my ignorance? Here is the book.
	jonathan harker	Take it and keep it, read it if you will, but never let me know.
	jonathan harker	Unless, indeed, some solemn duty should come upon me to go back to the bitter hours, asleep or awake, sane or mad, recorded here.
	narrator	He fell back exhausted, and I put the book under his pillow, and kissed him.
	narrator	I have asked Sister Agatha to beg the Superior to let our wedding be this afternoon, and am waiting her reply....
	narrator	She has come and told me that the chaplain of the English mission church has been sent for.
	narrator	We are to be married in an hour, or as soon after as Jonathan awakes....
	narrator	Lucy, the time has come and gone.
	narrator	I feel very solemn, but very, very happy.
	narrator	Jonathan woke a little after the hour, and all was ready, and he sat up in bed
	narrator	propped up with pillows.
	narrator	He answered his 'I will' firmly and strongly.
	narrator	I could hardly speak; my heart was so full that even those words seemed to choke me.
	narrator	The dear sisters were so kind.
	narrator	Please God, I shall never, never forget them, nor the grave and sweet responsibilities I have taken upon me.
	narrator	I must tell you of my wedding present.
	narrator	When the chaplain and the sisters had left me alone with my husband--oh, Lucy, it is the first time I have written the words 'my husband'--left me alone with my husband
	narrator	I took the book from under his pillow, and wrapped it up in white paper, and tied it with a little bit of pale blue ribbon which was round my neck
	narrator	and sealed it over the knot with sealing-wax, and for my seal I used my wedding ring.
	narrator	Then I kissed it and showed it to my husband, and told him that I would keep it so
	narrator	and then it would be an outward and visible sign for us all our lives that we trusted each other; that I would never open it unless it were for his own dear sake or for the sake of some stern duty.
	narrator	Then he took my hand in his, and oh, Lucy, it was the first time he took _his wife's_ hand
	narrator	and said that it was the dearest thing in all the wide world, and that he would go through all the past again to win it
	narrator	if need be.
	narrator	The poor dear meant to have said a part of the past, but he cannot think of time yet
	narrator	and I shall not wonder if at first he mixes up not only the month, but the year.
	narrator	Well, my dear, what could I say?
	narrator	I could only tell him that I was the happiest woman in all the wide world, and that I had nothing to give him except myself
	narrator	my life, and my trust, and that with these went my love and duty for all the days of my life.
	narrator	And, my dear, when he kissed me, and drew me to him with his poor weak hands
	narrator	it was like a very solemn pledge between us....
	narrator	Lucy dear, do you know why I tell you all this?
	narrator	It is not only because it is all sweet to me, but because you have been, and are
	narrator	very dear to me.
	narrator	It was my privilege to be your friend and guide when you came from the schoolroom to prepare for the world of life.
	narrator	I want you to see now, and with the eyes of a very happy wife, whither duty has led me; so that in your own married life you too may be all happy as I am.
	narrator	My dear, please Almighty God, your life may be all it promises: a long day of sunshine
	narrator	with no harsh wind, no forgetting duty, no distrust.
	narrator	I must not wish you no pain, for that can never be; but I do hope you will be always as happy as I am now.
	narrator	Good-bye, my dear.
	narrator	I shall post this at once, and, perhaps, write you very soon again.
	narrator	I must stop, for Jonathan is waking--I must attend to my husband!
	narrator	Your ever-loving
	narrator	MINA HARKER.
	narrator	Letter, Lucy Westenra to Mina Harker.
	narrator	Whitby, 30 August.
	narrator	My dearest Mina,--
	narrator	Oceans of love and millions of kisses, and may you soon be in your own home with your husband.
	narrator	I wish you could be coming home soon enough to stay with us here.
	narrator	The strong air would soon restore Jonathan; it has quite restored me.
	narrator	I have an appetite like a cormorant, am full of life, and sleep well.
	narrator	You will be glad to know that I have quite given up walking in my sleep.
	narrator	I think I have not stirred out of my bed for a week, that is when I once got into it at night.
	narrator	Arthur says I am getting fat.
	narrator	By the way, I forgot to tell you that Arthur is here.
	narrator	We have such walks and drives, and rides, and rowing, and tennis, and fishing together; and I love him more than ever.
	narrator	He tells me that he loves me more, but I doubt that, for at first he told me that he couldn't love me more than he did then.
	narrator	But this is nonsense.
	narrator	There he is, calling to me.
	narrator	So no more just at present from your loving
	narrator	LUCY.
	narrator	P.
	narrator	S.--Mother sends her love.
	narrator	She seems better, poor dear.
	narrator	P.
	narrator	P.
	narrator	S.--We are to be married on 28 September.
	narrator	Dr.
	narrator	Seward's Diary.
	narrator	20 August.--The case of Renfield grows even more interesting.
	narrator	He has now so far quieted that there are spells of cessation from his passion.
	narrator	For the first week after his attack he was perpetually violent.
	narrator	Then one night, just as the moon rose, he grew quiet, and kept murmuring to himself: "Now I can wait; now I can wait." The attendant came to tell me
	narrator	so I ran down at once to have a look at him.
	narrator	He was still in the strait-waistcoat and in the padded room, but the suffused look had gone from his face
	narrator	and his eyes had something of their old pleading--I might almost say, "cringing"--softness.
	narrator	I was satisfied with his present condition, and directed him to be relieved.
	narrator	The attendants hesitated, but finally carried out my wishes without protest.
	narrator	It was a strange thing that the patient had humour enough to see their distrust, for, coming close to me
	narrator	he said in a whisper, all the while looking furtively at them:
	renfield	They think I could hurt you! Fancy me hurting you! The fools!
	narrator	It was soothing, somehow, to the feelings to find myself dissociated even in the mind of this poor madman from the others; but all the same I do not follow his thought.
	narrator	Am I to take it that I have anything in common with him, so that we are
	narrator	as it were, to stand together; or has he to gain from me some good so stupendous that my well-being is needful to him?
	narrator	I must find out later on.
	narrator	To-night he will not speak.
	narrator	Even the offer of a kitten or even a full-grown cat will not tempt him.
	narrator	He will only say: "I don't take any stock in cats. I have more to think of now
	narrator	and I can wait; I can wait."
	narrator	After a while I left him.
	narrator	The attendant tells me that he was quiet until just before dawn, and that then he began to get uneasy
	narrator	and at length violent, until at last he fell into a paroxysm which exhausted him so that he swooned into a sort of coma.
	narrator	Three nights has the same thing happened--violent all day then quiet from moonrise to sunrise.
	narrator	I wish I could get some clue to the cause.
	narrator	It would almost seem as if there was some influence which came and went.
	narrator	Happy thought!
	narrator	We shall to-night play sane wits against mad ones.
	narrator	He escaped before without our help; to-night he shall escape with it.
	narrator	We shall give him a chance, and have the men ready to follow in case they are required....
	narrator	23 August.--"The unexpected always happens." How well Disraeli knew life.
	narrator	Our bird when he found the cage open would not fly, so all our subtle arrangements were for nought.
	narrator	At any rate, we have proved one thing; that the spells of quietness last a reasonable time.
	narrator	We shall in future be able to ease his bonds for a few hours each day.
	narrator	I have given orders to the night attendant merely to shut him in the padded room, when once he is quiet
	narrator	until an hour before sunrise.
	narrator	The poor soul's body will enjoy the relief even if his mind cannot appreciate it.
	narrator	Hark!
	narrator	The unexpected again!
	narrator	I am called; the patient has once more escaped.
	narrator	Later.--Another night adventure.
	narrator	Renfield artfully waited until the attendant was entering the room to inspect.
	narrator	Then he dashed out past him and flew down the passage.
	narrator	I sent word for the attendants to follow.
	narrator	Again he went into the grounds of the deserted house, and we found him in the same place
	narrator	pressed against the old chapel door.
	narrator	When he saw me he became furious, and had not the attendants seized him in time, he would have tried to kill me.
	narrator	As we were holding him a strange thing happened.
	narrator	He suddenly redoubled his efforts, and then as suddenly grew calm.
	narrator	I looked round instinctively, but could see nothing.
	narrator	Then I caught the patient's eye and followed it, but could trace nothing as it looked into the moonlit sky except a big bat
	narrator	which was flapping its silent and ghostly way to the west.
	narrator	Bats usually wheel and flit about, but this one seemed to go straight on, as if it knew where it was bound for or had some intention of its own.
	narrator	The patient grew calmer every instant, and presently said:
	renfield	You needn't tie me; I shall go quietly!
	narrator	Without trouble we came back to the house.
	narrator	I feel there is something ominous in his calm, and shall not forget this night....
	narrator	Lucy Westenra's Diary
	narrator	Hillingham, 24 August.--I must imitate Mina, and keep writing things down.
	narrator	Then we can have long talks when we do meet.
	narrator	I wonder when it will be.
	narrator	I wish she were with me again, for I feel so unhappy.
	narrator	Last night I seemed to be dreaming again just as I was at Whitby.
	narrator	Perhaps it is the change of air, or getting home again.
	narrator	It is all dark and horrid to me, for I can remember nothing; but I am full of vague fear
	narrator	and I feel so weak and worn out.
	narrator	When Arthur came to lunch he looked quite grieved when he saw me, and I hadn't the spirit to try to be cheerful.
	narrator	I wonder if I could sleep in mother's room to-night.
	narrator	I shall make an excuse and try.
	narrator	25 August.--Another bad night.
	narrator	Mother did not seem to take to my proposal.
	narrator	She seems not too well herself, and doubtless she fears to worry me.
	narrator	I tried to keep awake, and succeeded for a while; but when the clock struck twelve it waked me from a doze
	narrator	so I must have been falling asleep.
	narrator	There was a sort of scratching or flapping at the window, but I did not mind it
	narrator	and as I remember no more, I suppose I must then have fallen asleep.
	narrator	More bad dreams.
	narrator	I wish I could remember them.
	narrator	This morning I am horribly weak.
	narrator	My face is ghastly pale, and my throat pains me.
	narrator	It must be something wrong with my lungs, for I don't seem ever to get air enough.
	narrator	I shall try to cheer up when Arthur comes, or else I know he will be miserable to see me so.
	narrator	Letter, Arthur Holmwood to Dr.
	narrator	Seward.
	narrator	Albemarle Hotel, 31 August.
	narrator	My dear Jack,
	arthur holmwood	I want you to do me a favour. Lucy is ill; that is, she has no special disease, but she looks awful, and is getting worse every day. I have asked her if there is any cause; I do not dare to ask her mother, for to disturb the poor lady's mind about her daughter in her present state of health would be fatal. Mrs. Westenra has confided to me that her doom is spoken--disease of the heart--though poor Lucy does not know it yet. I am sure that there is something preying on my dear girl's mind. I am almost distracted when I think of her; to look at her gives me a pang. I told her I should ask you to see her, and though she demurred at first--I know why, old fellow--she finally consented. It will be a painful task for you, I know, old friend, but it is for _her_ sake, and I must not hesitate to ask, or you to act. You are to come to lunch at Hillingham to-morrow, two o'clock, so as not to arouse any suspicion in Mrs. Westenra, and after lunch Lucy will take an opportunity of being alone with you. I shall come in for tea, and we can go away together; I am filled with anxiety, and want to consult with you alone as soon as I can after you have seen her. Do not fail!
	narrator	ARTHUR.
	narrator	Telegram, Arthur Holmwood to Seward.
	narrator	1 September.
	narrator	Am summoned to see my father, who is worse.
	narrator	Am writing.
	narrator	Write me fully by to-night's post to Ring.
	narrator	Wire me if necessary.
	narrator	Letter from Dr.
	narrator	Seward to Arthur Holmwood.
	narrator	2 September.
	narrator	My dear old fellow,
	dr. john seward	With regard to Miss Westenra's health I hasten to let you know at once that in my opinion there is not any functional disturbance or any malady that I know of. At the same time, I am not by any means satisfied with her appearance; she is woefully different from what she was when I saw her last.
	dr. john seward	Of course you must bear in mind that I did not have full opportunity of examination such as I should wish; our very friendship makes a little difficulty which not even medical science or custom can bridge over. I had better tell you exactly what happened, leaving you to draw, in a measure, your own conclusions. I shall then say what I have done and propose doing.
	dr. john seward	I found Miss Westenra in seemingly gay spirits. Her mother was present, and in a few seconds I made up my mind that she was trying all she knew to mislead her mother and prevent her from being anxious. I have no doubt she guesses, if she does not know, what need of caution there is.
	dr. john seward	We lunched alone, and as we all exerted ourselves to be cheerful, we got, as some kind of reward for our labours, some real cheerfulness amongst us. Then Mrs. Westenra went to lie down, and Lucy was left with me.
	dr. john seward	We went into her boudoir, and till we got there her gaiety remained, for the servants were coming and going. As soon as the door was closed, however, the mask fell from her face, and she sank down into a chair with a great sigh, and hid her eyes with her hand.
	dr. john seward	When I saw that her high spirits had failed, I at once took advantage of her reaction to make a diagnosis. She said to me very sweetly:
	narrator	- Mina Harker (female): A young woman who is engaged to Jonathan Harker.
	narrator	She travels from Whitby to Buda-Pesth to care for her sick fiancé, who has suffered a terrible shock.
	narrator	She is devoted and nurturing, and eventually marries Jonathan.
	narrator	- Lucy Westenra (female): A young woman who is engaged to Arthur Holmwood.
	narrator	She lives in Whitby and later Hillingham, where she becomes ill with an unexplained condition that causes her to grow pale and weak.
	narrator	She is described as beautiful and beloved by Arthur.
	narrator	- Jonathan Harker (male): Mina's fiancé who has suffered a terrible shock and brain fever.
	narrator	He is described as thin, pale, weak-looking, and confused, though he recovers enough to marry Mina.
	narrator	- Sister Agatha (female): A kind and devoted nurse who cares for Jonathan Harker in Buda-Pesth.
	narrator	She is described as a good creature and born nurse who keeps secrets.
	narrator	- Dr.
	narrator	John Seward (male): A physician who works at an asylum and is a close friend of Arthur Holmwood.
	narrator	He examines Lucy Westenra, treats Jonathan Harker, and consults with Professor Van Helsing.
	narrator	- Renfield (*male): A patient at Dr.
	narrator	Seward's asylum who exhibits strange behavior, including violent outbursts and an obsession with consuming living creatures.
	narrator	He has periods of calmness that coincide with moonrise.
	narrator	- Arthur Holmwood (male): Lucy Westenra's fiancé who is deeply concerned about her health.
	narrator	He visits Lucy at Hillingham and seeks medical help for her, showing great devotion to her.
	narrator	- Abraham Van Helsing (male): A renowned professor and physician from Amsterdam who is called to help diagnose Lucy Westenra's mysterious illness.
	narrator	He is described as highly intelligent, experienced in obscure diseases, and deeply compassionate.
	narrator	- Mrs.
	narrator	Westenra (*female): Lucy Westenra's mother who is ill and concerned about her daughter's health.
	narrator	She has a heart condition that she believes will cause her death.
	narrator	- Miss Murray (*female): A woman who found Lucy Westenra walking in her sleep at East Cliff during their time in Whitby.
	narrator	PASSAGE:
	narrator	'I cannot tell you how I loathe talking about myself.'
	narrator	I reminded her that a doctor's confidence was sacred, but that you were grievously anxious about her.
	narrator	She caught on to my meaning at once, and settled that matter in a word. 'Tell Arthur everything you choose.
	narrator	I do not care for myself, but all for him!'
	narrator	So I am quite free.
	narrator	I could easily see that she is somewhat bloodless, but I could not see the usual anæmic signs
	narrator	and by a chance I was actually able to test the quality of her blood, for in opening a window which was stiff a cord gave way
	narrator	and she cut her hand slightly with broken glass.
	narrator	It was a slight matter in itself, but it gave me an evident chance, and I secured a few drops of the blood and have analysed them.
	narrator	The qualitative analysis gives a quite normal condition, and shows, I should infer, in itself a vigorous state of health.
	narrator	In other physical matters I was quite satisfied that there is no need for anxiety; but as there must be a cause somewhere
	narrator	I have come to the conclusion that it must be something mental.
	narrator	She complains of difficulty in breathing satisfactorily at times, and of heavy, lethargic sleep, with dreams that frighten her
	narrator	but regarding which she can remember nothing.
	narrator	She says that as a child she used to walk in her sleep, and that when in Whitby the habit came back
	narrator	and that once she walked out in the night and went to East Cliff, where Miss Murray found her; but she assures me that of late the habit has not returned.
	narrator	I am in doubt, and so have done the best thing I know of; I have written to my old friend and master
	narrator	Professor Van Helsing, of Amsterdam, who knows as much about obscure diseases as any one in the world.
	narrator	I have asked him to come over, and as you told me that all things were to be at your charge
	narrator	I have mentioned to him who you are and your relations to Miss Westenra.
	narrator	This, my dear fellow, is in obedience to your wishes, for I am only too proud and happy to do anything I can for her.
	narrator	Van Helsing would, I know, do anything for me for a personal reason, so, no matter on what ground he comes
	narrator	we must accept his wishes.
	narrator	He is a seemingly arbitrary man, but this is because he knows what he is talking about better than any one else.
	narrator	He is a philosopher and a metaphysician, and one of the most advanced scientists of his day; and he has
	narrator	I believe, an absolutely open mind.
	narrator	This, with an iron nerve, a temper of the ice-brook, an indomitable resolution, self-command, and toleration exalted from virtues to blessings
	narrator	and the kindliest and truest heart that beats--these form his equipment for the noble work that he is doing for mankind--work both in theory and practice
	narrator	for his views are as wide as his all-embracing sympathy.
	narrator	I tell you these facts that you may know why I have such confidence in him.
	narrator	I have asked him to come at once.
	narrator	I shall see Miss Westenra to-morrow again.
	narrator	She is to meet me at the Stores, so that I may not alarm her mother by too early a repetition of my call.
	narrator	Yours always,
	narrator	JOHN SEWARD.
	narrator	Letter, Abraham Van Helsing, M.
	narrator	D., D.
	narrator	Ph., D.
	narrator	Lit., etc., etc., to Dr.
	narrator	Seward.
	narrator	2 September.
	narrator	My good Friend,--
	narrator	When I have received your letter I am already coming to you.
	narrator	By good fortune I can leave just at once, without wrong to any of those who have trusted me.
	narrator	Were fortune other, then it were bad for those who have trusted, for I come to my friend when he call me to aid those he holds dear.
	narrator	Tell your friend that when that time you suck from my wound so swiftly the poison of the gangrene from that knife that our other friend
	narrator	too nervous, let slip, you did more for him when he wants my aids and you call for them than all his great fortune could do.
	narrator	But it is pleasure added to do for him, your friend; it is to you that I come.
	narrator	Have then rooms for me at the Great Eastern Hotel, so that I may be near to hand
	narrator	and please it so arrange that we may see the young lady not too late on to-morrow
	narrator	for it is likely that I may have to return here that night.
	narrator	But if need be I shall come again in three days, and stay longer if it must.
	narrator	Till then good-bye, my friend John.
	narrator	VAN HELSING.
	narrator	Letter, Dr.
	narrator	Seward to Hon.
	narrator	Arthur Holmwood.
	narrator	3 September.
	narrator	My dear Art,--
	narrator	Van Helsing has come and gone.
	narrator	He came on with me to Hillingham, and found that, by Lucy's discretion, her mother was lunching out
	narrator	so that we were alone with her.
	narrator	Van Helsing made a very careful examination of the patient.
	narrator	He is to report to me, and I shall advise you, for of course I was not present all the time.
	narrator	He is, I fear, much concerned, but says he must think.
	narrator	When I told him of our friendship and how you trust to me in the matter, he said: 'You must tell him all you think.
	narrator	Tell him what I think, if you can guess it, if you will.
	narrator	Nay, I am not jesting.
	narrator	This is no jest, but life and death, perhaps more.'
	narrator	I asked what he meant by that, for he was very serious.
	narrator	This was when we had come back to town, and he was having a cup of tea before starting on his return to Amsterdam.
	narrator	He would not give me any further clue.
	narrator	You must not be angry with me, Art, because his very reticence means that all his brains are working for her good.
	narrator	He will speak plainly enough when the time comes, be sure.
	narrator	So I told him I would simply write an account of our visit, just as if I were doing a descriptive special article for The Daily Telegraph.
	narrator	He seemed not to notice, but remarked that the smuts in London were not quite so bad as they used to be when he was a student here.
	narrator	I am to get his report to-morrow if he can possibly make it.
	narrator	In any case I am to have a letter.
	narrator	Well, as to the visit.
	narrator	Lucy was more cheerful than on the day I first saw her, and certainly looked better.
	narrator	She had lost something of the ghastly look that so upset you, and her breathing was normal.
	narrator	She was very sweet to the professor (as she always is), and tried to make him feel at ease; though I could see that the poor girl was making a hard struggle for it.
	narrator	I believe Van Helsing saw it, too, for I saw the quick look under his bushy brows that I knew of old.
	narrator	Then he began to chat of all things except ourselves and diseases and with such an infinite geniality that I could see poor Lucy's pretense of animation merge into reality.
	narrator	Then, without any seeming change, he brought the conversation gently round to his visit, and suavely said:
	abraham van helsing	My dear young miss, I have the so great pleasure because you are so much beloved. That is much, my dear, ever were there that which I do not see. They told me you were down in the spirit, and that you were of a ghastly pale. To them I say: "Pouf!
	narrator	And he snapped his fingers at me and went on: 'But you and I shall show them how wrong they are.
	narrator	How can he'
	abraham van helsing	know anything of a young ladies? He has his madmans to play with, and to bring them back to happiness, and to those that love them. It is much to do, and, oh, but there are rewards, in that we can bestow such happiness. But the young ladies! He has no wife nor daughter, and the young do not tell themselves to the young, but to the old, like me, who have known so many sorrows and the causes of them. So, my dear, we will send him away to smoke the cigarette in the garden, whiles you and I have little talk all to ourselves.
	narrator	I took the hint, and strolled about, and presently the professor came to the window and called me in.
	narrator	He looked grave, but said: 'I have made careful examination, but there is no functional cause.
	narrator	With you I agree that there has been much blood lost; it has been, but is not.
	narrator	But the conditions of her are in no way anæmic.
	narrator	I have asked her to send me her maid, that I may ask just one or two question
	narrator	that so I may not chance to miss nothing.
	narrator	I know well what she will say.
	narrator	And yet there is cause; there is always cause for everything.
	narrator	I must go back home and think.
	narrator	You must send to me the telegram every day; and if there be cause I shall come again.
	narrator	The disease--for not to be all well is a disease--interest me, and the sweet young dear, she interest me too.
	narrator	She charm me, and for her, if not for you or disease, I come.'
	narrator	As I tell you, he would not say a word more, even when we were alone.
	narrator	And so now, Art, you know all I know.
	narrator	I shall keep stern watch.
	narrator	I trust your poor father is rallying.
	narrator	It must be a terrible thing to you, my dear old fellow, to be placed in such a position between two people who are both so dear to you.
	narrator	I know your idea of duty to your father, and you are right to stick to it; but
	narrator	if need be, I shall send you word to come at once to Lucy; so do not be over-anxious unless you hear from me.
	narrator	Dr.
	narrator	Seward's Diary.
	narrator	4 September.--Zoöphagous patient still keeps up our interest in him.
	narrator	He had only one outburst and that was yesterday at an unusual time.
	narrator	Just before the stroke of noon he began to grow restless.
	narrator	The attendant knew the symptoms, and at once summoned aid.
	narrator	Fortunately the men came at a run, and were just in time, for at the stroke of noon he became so violent that it took all their strength to hold him.
	narrator	In about five minutes, however, he began to get more and more quiet, and finally sank into a sort of melancholy
	narrator	in which state he has remained up to now.
	narrator	The attendant tells me that his screams whilst in the paroxysm were really appalling; I found my hands full when I got in
	narrator	attending to some of the other patients who were frightened by him.
	narrator	Indeed, I can quite understand the effect, for the sounds disturbed even me, though I was some distance away.
	narrator	It is now after the dinner-hour of the asylum, and as yet my patient sits in a corner brooding
	narrator	with a dull, sullen, woe-begone look in his face, which seems rather to indicate than to show something directly.
	narrator	I cannot quite understand it.
	narrator	Later.--Another change in my patient.
	narrator	At five o'clock I looked in on him, and found him seemingly as happy and contented as he used to be.
	narrator	He was catching flies and eating them, and was keeping note of his capture by making nail-marks on the edge of the door between the ridges of padding.
	narrator	When he saw me, he came over and apologised for his bad conduct, and asked me in a very humble
	narrator	cringing way to be led back to his own room and to have his note-book again.
	narrator	I thought it well to humour him: so he is back in his room with the window open.
	narrator	He has the sugar of his tea spread out on the window-sill, and is reaping quite a harvest of flies.
	narrator	He is not now eating them, but putting them into a box, as of old, and is already examining the corners of his room to find a spider.
	narrator	I tried to get him to talk about the past few days, for any clue to his thoughts would be of immense help to me; but he would not rise.
	narrator	For a moment or two he looked very sad, and said in a sort of far-away voice
	narrator	as though saying it rather to himself than to me:
	renfield	All over! all over! He has deserted me. No hope for me now unless I do it for myself!
	narrator	Then suddenly turning to me in a resolute way, he said:
	renfield	Doctor, won't you be very good to me and let me have a little more sugar? I think it would be good for me.
	narrator	And the flies?
	renfield	Yes! The flies like it, too, and I like the flies; therefore I like it.
	narrator	And there are people who know so little as to think that madmen do not argue.
	narrator	I procured him a double supply, and left him as happy a man as, I suppose, any in the world.
	narrator	I wish I could fathom his mind.
	narrator	Midnight.
	narrator	--Another change in him.
	narrator	I had been to see Miss Westenra, whom I found much better, and had just returned, and was standing at our own gate looking at the sunset
	narrator	when once more I heard him yelling.
	narrator	As his room is on this side of the house, I could hear it better than in the morning.
	narrator	It was a shock to me to turn from the wonderful smoky beauty of a sunset over London
	narrator	with its lurid lights and inky shadows and all the marvellous tints that come on foul clouds even as on foul water
	narrator	and to realise all the grim sternness of my own cold stone building, with its wealth of breathing misery
	narrator	and my own desolate heart to endure it all.
	narrator	I reached him just as the sun was going down, and from his window saw the red disc sink.
	narrator	As it sank he became less and less frenzied; and just as it dipped he slid from the hands that held him
	narrator	an inert mass, on the floor.
	narrator	It is wonderful, however, what intellectual recuperative power lunatics have, for within a few minutes he stood up quite calmly and looked around him.
	narrator	I signalled to the attendants not to hold him, for I was anxious to see what he would do.
	narrator	He went straight over to the window and brushed out the crumbs of sugar; then he took his fly-box
	narrator	and emptied it outside, and threw away the box; then he shut the window, and crossing over
	narrator	sat down on his bed.
	narrator	All this surprised me, so I asked him:
	dr. john seward	Are you not going to keep flies any more?
	renfield	No,
	narrator	said he; "I am sick of all that rubbish!"
	narrator	He certainly is a wonderfully interesting study.
	narrator	I wish I could get some glimpse of his mind or of the cause of his sudden passion.
	narrator	Stop; there may be a clue after all, if we can find why to-day his paroxysms came on at high noon and at sunset.
	narrator	Can it be that there is a malign influence of the sun at periods which affects certain natures--as at times the moon does others?
	narrator	We shall see.
	narrator	Telegram, Seward, London, to Van Helsing, Amsterdam.
	narrator	"4 September."--Patient still better to-day.
	narrator	Telegram, Seward, London, to Van Helsing, Amsterdam.
	narrator	"5 September."--Patient greatly improved.
	narrator	Good appetite; sleeps naturally; good spirits; colour coming back.
	narrator	Telegram, Seward, London, to Van Helsing, Amsterdam.
	narrator	"6 September."--Terrible change for the worse.
	narrator	Come at once; do not lose an hour.
	narrator	I hold over telegram to Holmwood till have seen you."
