Mina Murray	female	A journal keeper who is anxious about her husband Jonathan's whereabouts and safety. She is caring and observant, noting Lucy's restlessness and the strange events around them.
Lucy	female	Mina's friend who experiences sleep-walking episodes and is sensitive to supernatural influences. She becomes increasingly unsettled by the strange events in Whitby.
Jonathan	*male	Mina's husband who is described as being at sea during the storm, causing Mina to worry about his safety and whereabouts.
Captain	*male	A Russian sea captain who dies during a storm while steering his ship the Demeter. He becomes increasingly paranoid and eventually jumps overboard.
Mate	*male	The first mate of the Demeter who becomes increasingly demoralized and eventually goes mad, believing there is a supernatural presence aboard the ship.
Petrofsky	*male	A crew member of the Demeter who disappears during the voyage, one of several men who vanish mysteriously.
Olgaren	*male	A crew member of the Demeter who reports seeing a strange man aboard the ship and later disappears.
Abramoff	*male	A crew member of the Demeter who relieves Petrofsky on watch but does not find him when he should have returned.
Mr. Swales	*male	An elderly local man found dead on the old seat near the churchyard, apparently frightened to death.
Surgeon J. M. Caffyn	*male	A doctor who examines the dead seaman and confirms he has been dead for at least two days.
Mr. S. F. Billington	*male	A Whitby solicitor who takes possession of the cargo consigned to him from the Demeter.
Russian consul	*male	The Russian consul who acts on behalf of the charter-party to take possession of the ship.
Mr. Caffyn	*male	A doctor who examines the dead seaman and confirms he has been dead for at least two days.
The dog	*male	A large, fierce dog that appears after the ship crashes onto Tate Hill Pier and then disappears from Whitby.
The coal merchant's dog	*male	A half-bred mastiff found dead in the roadway, apparently killed by a savage opponent with claws.
