	narrator	CHAPTER XXII
	narrator	JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL
	narrator	_3 October._--As I must do something or go mad, I write this diary.
	narrator	It is now six o'clock, and we are to meet in the study in half an hour and take something to eat; for Dr.
	narrator	Van Helsing and Dr.
	narrator	Seward are agreed that if we do not eat we cannot work our best.
	narrator	Our best will be, God knows, required to-day.
	narrator	I must keep writing at every chance, for I dare not stop to think.
	narrator	All, big and little, must go down; perhaps at the end the little things may teach us most.
	narrator	The teaching, big or little, could not have landed Mina or me anywhere worse than we are to-day.
	narrator	However, we must trust and hope.
	narrator	Poor Mina told me just now, with the tears running down her dear cheeks, that it is in trouble and trial that our faith is tested--that we must keep on trusting; and that God will aid us up to the end.
	narrator	The end! oh my God! what end?...
	narrator	To work!
	narrator	To work!
	narrator	When Dr.
	narrator	Van Helsing and Dr.
	narrator	Seward had come back from seeing poor Renfield, we went gravely into what was to be done.
	narrator	First, Dr.
	narrator	Seward told us that when he and Dr.
	narrator	Van Helsing had gone down to the room below they had found Renfield lying on the floor
	narrator	all in a heap.
	narrator	His face was all bruised and crushed in, and the bones of the neck were broken.
	narrator	Dr.
	narrator	Seward asked the attendant who was on duty in the passage if he had heard anything.
	narrator	He said that he had been sitting down--he confessed to half dozing--when he heard loud voices in the room
	narrator	and then Renfield had called out loudly several times, "God! God! God!" after that there was a sound of falling
	narrator	and when he entered the room he found him lying on the floor, face down, just as the doctors had seen him.
	narrator	Van Helsing asked if he had heard "voices" or "a voice," and he said he could not say; that at first it had seemed to him as if there were two
	narrator	but as there was no one in the room it could have been only one.
	narrator	He could swear to it, if required, that the word "God" was spoken by the patient.
	narrator	Dr.
	narrator	Seward said to us, when we were alone, that he did not wish to go into the matter; the question of an inquest had to be considered
	narrator	and it would never do to put forward the truth, as no one would believe it.
	narrator	As it was, he thought that on the attendant's evidence he could give a certificate of death by misadventure in falling from bed.
	narrator	In case the coroner should demand it, there would be a formal inquest, necessarily to the same result.
	narrator	When the question began to be discussed as to what should be our next step, the very first thing we decided was that Mina should be in full confidence; that nothing of any sort--no matter how painful--should be kept from her.
	narrator	She herself agreed as to its wisdom, and it was pitiful to see her so brave and yet so sorrowful
	narrator	and in such a depth of despair.
	narrator	"There must be no concealment," she said, "Alas! we have had too much already. And besides there is nothing in all the world that can give me more pain than I have already endured--than I suffer now! Whatever may happen
	narrator	it must be of new hope or of new courage to me!"
	dr. van helsing	But dear Madam Mina, are you not afraid; not for yourself, but for others from yourself, after what has happened?
	mina harker	Ah no! for my mind is made up!
	dr. van helsing	To what?
	mina harker	Because if I find in myself--and I shall watch keenly for it--a sign of harm to any that I love, I shall die!
	dr. van helsing	You would not kill yourself?
	mina harker	I would; if there were no friend who loved me, who would save me such a pain, and so desperate an effort!
	dr. van helsing	My child, there is such an one if it were for your good. For myself I could hold it in my account with God to find such an euthanasia for you, even at this moment if it were best. Nay, were it safe! But my child----
	narrator	For a moment he seemed choked, and a great sob rose in his throat; he gulped it down and went on:
	dr. van helsing	There are here some who would stand between you and death. You must not die. You must not die by any hand; but least of all by your own. Until the other, who has fouled your sweet life, is true dead you must not die; for if he is still with the quick Un-Dead, your death would make you even as he is. No, you must live! You must struggle and strive to live, though death would seem a boon unspeakable. You must fight Death himself, though he come to you in pain or in joy; by the day, or the night; in safety or in peril! On your living soul I charge you that you do not die--nay, nor think of death--till this great evil be past.
	mina harker	I promise you, my dear friend, that if God will let me live, I shall strive to do so; till, if it may be in His good time, this horror may have passed away from me.
	narrator	She was so good and brave that we all felt that our hearts were strengthened to work and endure for her
	narrator	and we began to discuss what we were to do.
	narrator	I told her that she was to have all the papers in the safe, and all the papers or diaries and phonographs we might hereafter use; and was to keep the record as she had done before.
	narrator	She was pleased with the prospect of anything to do--if "pleased" could be used in connection with so grim an interest.
	narrator	As usual Van Helsing had thought ahead of everyone else, and was prepared with an exact ordering of our work.
	narrator	It is perhaps well,
	dr. van helsing	that at our meeting after our visit to Carfax we decided not to do anything with the earth-boxes that lay there. Had we done so, the Count must have guessed our purpose, and would doubtless have taken measures in advance to frustrate such an effort with regard to the others; but now he does not know our intentions. Nay, more, in all probability, he does not know that such a power exists to us as can sterilise his lairs, so that he cannot use them as of old. We are now so much further advanced in our knowledge as to their disposition that, when we have examined the house in Piccadilly, we may track the very last of them. To-day, then, is ours; and in it rests our hope. The sun that rose on our sorrow this morning guards us in its course. Until it sets to-night, that monster must retain whatever form he now has. He is confined within the limitations of his earthly envelope. He cannot melt into thin air nor disappear through cracks or chinks or crannies. If he go through a doorway, he must open the door like a mortal. And so we have this day to hunt out all his lairs and sterilise them. So we shall, if we have not yet catch him and destroy him, drive him to bay in some place where the catching and the destroying shall be, in time, sure.
	narrator	Here I started up for I could not contain myself at the thought that the minutes and seconds so preciousladen with Mina's life and happiness were flying from us
	narrator	since whilst we talked action was impossible.
	dr. van helsing	Nay, friend Jonathan,
	dr. van helsing	in this, the quickest way home is the longest way, so your proverb say. We shall all act and act with desperate quick, when the time has come. But think, in all probable the key of the situation is in that house in Piccadilly. The Count may have many houses which he has bought. Of them he will have deeds of purchase, keys and other things. He will have paper that he write on; he will have his book of cheques. There are many belongings that he must have somewhere; why not in this place so central, so quiet, where he come and go by the front or the back at all hour, when in the very vast of the traffic there is none to notice. We shall go there and search that house; and when we learn what it holds, then we do what our friend Arthur call, in his phrases of hunt 'stop the earths' and so we run down our old fox--so? is it not?
	narrator	Then let us come at once,
	jonathan harker	we are wasting the precious, precious time!
	dr. van helsing	And how are we to get into that house in Piccadilly?
	jonathan harker	Any way!
	jonathan harker	We shall break in if need be.
	dr. van helsing	And your police; where will they be, and what will they say?
	narrator	I was staggered; but I knew that if he wished to delay he had a good reason for it.
	narrator	So I said, as quietly as I could:
	jonathan harker	Don't wait more than need be; you know, I am sure, what torture I am in.
	dr. van helsing	Ah, my child, that I do; and indeed there is no wish of me to add to your anguish. But just think, what can we do, until all the world be at movement. Then will come our time.
	dr. van helsing	I have thought and thought, and it seems to me that the simplest way is the best of all.
	dr. van helsing	Now we wish to get into the house, but we have no key; is it not so?
	jonathan harker	I nodded.
	dr. van helsing	Now suppose that you were, in truth, the owner of that house, and could not still get in; and think there was to you no conscience of the housebreaker, what would you do?
	jonathan harker	I should get a respectable locksmith, and set him to work to pick the lock for me.
	dr. van helsing	And your police, they would interfere, would they not?
	jonathan harker	Oh, no! not if they knew the man was properly employed.
	dr. van helsing	Then, all that is in doubt is the conscience of the employer, and the belief of your policemen as to whether or no that employer has a good conscience or a bad one. Your police must indeed be zealous men and clever--oh, so clever!--in reading the heart, that they trouble themselves in such matter. No, no, my friend Jonathan, you go take the lock off a hundred empty house in this your London, or of any city in the world; and if you do it as such things are rightly done, and at the time such things are rightly done, no one will interfere.
	dr. van helsing	I have read of a gentleman who owned a so fine house in London, and when he went for months of summer to Switzerland and lock up his house, some burglar came and broke window at back and got in. Then he went and made open the shutters in front and walk out and in through the door, before the very eyes of the police. Then he have an auction in that house, and advertise it, and put up big notice; and when the day come he sell off by a great auctioneer all the goods of that other man who own them. Then he go to a builder, and he sell him that house, making an agreement that he pull it down and take all away within a certain time. And your police and other authority help him all they can. And when that owner come back from his holiday in Switzerland he find only an empty hole where his house had been. This was all done _en règle_; and in our work we shall be _en règle_ too. We shall not go so early that the policemen who have then little to think of, shall deem it strange; but we shall go after ten o’clock, when there are many about, and such things would be done were we indeed owners of the house.
	narrator	I could not but see how right he was and the terrible despair of Mina's face became relaxed a thought; there was hope in such good counsel.
	dr. van helsing	When once within that house we may find more clues; at any rate some of us can remain there whilst the rest find the other places where there be more earth-boxes--at Bermondsey and Mile End.
	lord godalming	I can be of some use here,
	lord godalming	I shall wire to my people to have horses and carriages where they will be most convenient.
	quincey morris	Look here, old fellow, it is a capital idea to have all ready in case we want to go horsebacking; but don't you think that one of your snappy carriages with its heraldic adornments in a byway of Walworth or Mile End would attract too much attention for our purposes? It seems to me that we ought to take cabs when we go south or east; and even leave them somewhere near the neighbourhood we are going to.
	narrator	Friend Quincey is right!
	dr. van helsing	His head is what you call in plane with the horizon. It is a difficult thing that we go to do, and we do not want no peoples to watch us if so it may.
	narrator	Mina took a growing interest in everything and I was rejoiced to see that the exigency of affairs was helping her to forget for a time the terrible experience of the night.
	narrator	She was very, very pale--almost ghastly, and so thin that her lips were drawn away, showing her teeth in somewhat of prominence.
	narrator	I did not mention this last, lest it should give her needless pain; but it made my blood run cold in my veins to think of what had occurred with poor Lucy when the Count had sucked her blood.
	narrator	As yet there was no sign of the teeth growing sharper; but the time as yet was short
	narrator	and there was time for fear.
	narrator	When we came to the discussion of the sequence of our efforts and of the disposition of our forces
	narrator	there were new sources of doubt.
	narrator	It was finally agreed that before starting for Piccadilly we should destroy the Count's lair close at hand.
	narrator	In case he should find it out too soon, we should thus be still ahead of him in our work of destruction; and his presence in his purely material shape
	narrator	and at his weakest, might give us some new clue.
	narrator	As to the disposal of forces, it was suggested by the Professor that, after our visit to Carfax
	narrator	we should all enter the house in Piccadilly; that the two doctors and I should remain there
	narrator	whilst Lord Godalming and Quincey found the lairs at Walworth and Mile End and destroyed them.
	narrator	It was possible, if not likely, the Professor urged, that the Count might appear in Piccadilly during the day
	narrator	and that if so we might be able to cope with him then and there.
	narrator	At any rate, we might be able to follow him in force.
	narrator	To this plan I strenuously objected, and so far as my going was concerned, for I said that I intended to stay and protect Mina
	narrator	I thought that my mind was made up on the subject; but Mina would not listen to my objection.
	narrator	She said that there might be some law matter in which I could be useful; that amongst the Count's papers might be some clue which I could understand out of my experience in Transylvania; and that
	narrator	as it was, all the strength we could muster was required to cope with the Count's extraordinary power.
	narrator	I had to give in, for Mina's resolution was fixed; she said that it was the last hope for _her_ that we should all work together.
	narrator	"As for me," she said, "I have no fear. Things have been as bad as they can be; and whatever may happen must have in it some element of hope or comfort. Go
	narrator	my husband! God can, if He wishes it, guard me as well alone as with any one present." So I started up crying out: "Then in God's name let us come at once
	narrator	for we are losing time. The Count may come to Piccadilly earlier than we think."
	dr. van helsing	Not so!
	narrator	But why?
	dr. van helsing	Do you forget, that last night he banqueted heavily, and will sleep late?
	narrator	Did I forget! shall I ever--can I ever!
	narrator	Can any of us ever forget that terrible scene!
	narrator	Mina struggled hard to keep her brave countenance; but the pain overmastered her and she put her hands before her face
	narrator	and shuddered whilst she moaned.
	narrator	Van Helsing had not intended to recall her frightful experience.
	narrator	He had simply lost sight of her and her part in the affair in his intellectual effort.
	narrator	When it struck him what he said, he was horrified at his thoughtlessness and tried to comfort her.
	narrator	"Oh, Madam Mina," he said, "dear, dear Madam Mina, alas! that I of all who so reverence you should have said anything so forgetful. These stupid old lips of mine and this stupid old head do not deserve so; but you will forget it
	narrator	will you not?" He bent low beside her as he spoke; she took his hand, and looking at him through her tears
	narrator	said hoarsely:
	mina harker	No, I shall not forget, for it is well that I remember; and with it I have so much in memory of you that is sweet, that I take it all together. Now, you must all be going soon. Breakfast is ready, and we must all eat that we may be strong.
	narrator	Breakfast was a strange meal to us all.
	narrator	We tried to be cheerful and encourage each other, and Mina was the brightest and most cheerful of us.
	narrator	When it was over, Van Helsing stood up and said:
	dr. van helsing	Now, my dear friends, we go forth to our terrible enterprise. Are we all armed, as we were on that night when first we visited our enemy's lair; armed against ghostly as well as carnal attack?
	narrator	We all assured him.
	dr. van helsing	Then it is well. Now, Madam Mina, you are in any case _quite_ safe here until the sunset; and before then we shall return--if---- We shall return! But before we go let me see you armed against personal attack. I have myself, since you came down, prepared your chamber by the placing of things of which we know, so that He may not enter. Now let me guard yourself. On your forehead I touch this piece of Sacred Wafer in the name of the Father, the Son, and----
	narrator	There was a fearful scream which almost froze our hearts to hear.
	narrator	As he had placed the Wafer on Mina’s forehead, it had seared it--had burned into the flesh as though it had been a piece of white-hot metal.
	narrator	My poor darling’s brain had told her the significance of the fact as quickly as her nerves received the pain of it; and the two so overwhelmed her that her overwrought nature had its voice in that dreadful scream.
	narrator	But the words to her thought came quickly; the echo of the scream had not ceased to ring on the air when there came the reaction
	narrator	and she sank on her knees on the floor in an agony of abasement.
	narrator	Pulling her beautiful hair over her face, as the leper of old his mantle, she wailed out:
	mina harker	Unclean! Unclean! Even the Almighty shuns my polluted flesh! I must bear this mark of shame upon my forehead until the Judgment Day.
	narrator	They all paused.
	narrator	I had thrown myself beside her in an agony of helpless grief, and putting my arms around held her tight.
	narrator	For a few minutes our sorrowful hearts beat together, whilst the friends around us turned away their eyes that ran tears silently.
	dr. van helsing	It may be that you may have to bear that mark till God himself see fit, as He most surely shall, on the Judgment Day, to redress all wrongs of the earth and of His children that He has placed thereon.
	dr. van helsing	And oh, Madam Mina, my dear, my dear, may we who love you be there to see, when that red scar, the sign of God’s knowledge of what has been, shall pass away, and leave your forehead as pure as the heart we know.
	dr. van helsing	For so surely as we live, that scar shall pass away when God sees right to lift the burden that is hard upon us.
	dr. van helsing	Till then we bear our Cross, as His Son did in obedience to His Will.
	dr. van helsing	It may be that we are chosen instruments of His good pleasure, and that we ascend to His bidding as that other through stripes and shame; through tears and blood; through doubts and fears, and all that makes the difference between God and man.
	narrator	There was hope in his words, and comfort; and they made for resignation.
	narrator	Mina and I both felt so, and simultaneously we each took one of the old man’s hands and bent over and kissed it.
	narrator	Then without a word we all knelt down together, and, all holding hands, swore to be true to each other.
	narrator	We men pledged ourselves to raise the veil of sorrow from the head of her whom, each in his own way
	narrator	we loved; and we prayed for help and guidance in the terrible task which lay before us.
	narrator	It was then time to start.
	narrator	So I said farewell to Mina, a parting which neither of us shall forget to our dying day; and we set out.
	narrator	To one thing I have made up my mind: if we find out that Mina must be a vampire in the end
	narrator	then she shall not go into that unknown and terrible land alone.
	narrator	I suppose it is thus that in old times one vampire meant many; just as their hideous bodies could only rest in sacred earth
	narrator	so the holiest love was the recruiting sergeant for their ghastly ranks.
	narrator	We entered Carfax without trouble and found all things the same as on the first occasion.
	narrator	It was hard to believe that amongst so prosaic surroundings of neglect and dust and decay there was any ground for such fear as already we knew.
	narrator	Had not our minds been made up, and had there not been terrible memories to spur us on
	narrator	we could hardly have proceeded with our task.
	narrator	We found no papers, or any sign of use in the house; and in the old chapel the great boxes looked just as we had seen them last.
	dr. van helsing	And now, my friends, we have a duty here to do.
	dr. van helsing	We must sterilise this earth, so sacred of holy memories, that he has brought from a far distant land for such fell use.
	dr. van helsing	He has chosen this earth because it has been holy.
	dr. van helsing	Thus we defeat him with his own weapon, for we make it more holy still.
	dr. van helsing	It was sanctified to such use of man, now we sanctify it to God.
	narrator	As he spoke he took from his bag a screwdriver and a wrench, and very soon the top of one of the cases was thrown open.
	narrator	The earth smelled musty and close; but we did not somehow seem to mind, for our attention was concentrated on the Professor.
	narrator	Taking from his box a piece of the Sacred Wafer he laid it reverently on the earth
	narrator	and then shutting down the lid began to screw it home, we aiding him as he worked.
	narrator	One by one we treated in the same way each of the great boxes, and left them as we had found them to all appearance; but in each was a portion of the Host.
	dr. van helsing	So much is already done.
	dr. van helsing	If it may be that with all the others we can be so successful, then the sunset of this evening may shine on Madam Mina’s forehead all white as ivory and with no stain!
	narrator	As we passed across the lawn on our way to the station to catch our train we could see the front of the asylum.
	narrator	I looked eagerly, and in the window of my own room saw Mina.
	narrator	I waved my hand to her, and nodded to tell that our work there was successfully accomplished.
	narrator	She nodded in reply to show that she understood.
	narrator	The last I saw, she was waving her hand in farewell.
	narrator	It was with a heavy heart that we sought the station and just caught the train, which was steaming in as we reached the platform.
	narrator	I have written this in the train.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	Piccadilly, 12:30 o’clock.--Just before we reached Fenchurch Street Lord Godalming said to me:
	quincey morris	Quincey and I will find a locksmith. You had better not come with us in case there should be any difficulty; for under the circumstances it wouldn't seem so bad for us to break into an empty house. But you are a solicitor and the Incorporated Law Society might tell you that you should have known better.
	narrator	I demurred as to my not sharing any danger even of odium, but he went on:
	quincey morris	Besides, it will attract less attention if there are not too many of us. My title will make it all right with the locksmith, and with any policeman that may come along. You had better go with Jack and the Professor and stay in the Green Park, somewhere in sight of the house; and when you see the door opened and the smith has gone away, do you all come across. We shall be on the look out for you, and shall let you in.
	narrator	The advice is good!
	dr. van helsing	The advice is good!
	narrator	so we said no more.
	narrator	Godalming and Morris hurried off in a cab, we following in another.
	narrator	At the corner of Arlington Street our contingent got out and strolled into the Green Park.
	narrator	My heart beat as I saw the house on which so much of our hope was centred
	narrator	looming up grim and silent in its deserted condition amongst its more lively and spruce-looking neighbours.
	narrator	We sat down on a bench within good view, and began to smoke cigars so as to attract as little attention as possible.
	narrator	The minutes seemed to pass with leaden feet as we waited for the coming of the others.
	narrator	At length we saw a four-wheeler drive up.
	narrator	Out of it, in leisurely fashion, got Lord Godalming and Morris; and down from the box descended a thick-set working man with his rush-woven basket of tools.
	narrator	Morris paid the cabman, who touched his hat and drove away.
	narrator	Together the two ascended the steps, and Lord Godalming pointed out what he wanted done.
	narrator	The workman took off his coat leisurely and hung it on one of the spikes of the rail
	narrator	saying something to a policeman who just then sauntered along.
	narrator	The policeman nodded acquiescence, and the man kneeling down placed his bag beside him.
	narrator	After searching through it, he took out a selection of tools which he produced to lay beside him in orderly fashion.
	narrator	Then he stood up, looked into the keyhole, blew into it, and turning to his employers, made some remark.
	narrator	Lord Godalming smiled, and the man lifted a good-sized bunch of keys; selecting one of them, he began to probe the lock
	narrator	as if feeling his way with it.
	narrator	After fumbling about for a bit he tried a second, and then a third.
	narrator	All at once the door opened under a slight push from him, and he and the two others entered the hall.
	narrator	We sat still; my own cigar burnt furiously, but Van Helsing's went cold altogether.
	narrator	We waited patiently as we saw the workman come out and bring in his bag.
	narrator	Then he held the door partly open, steadying it with his knees, whilst he fitted a key to the lock.
	narrator	This he finally handed to Lord Godalming, who took out his purse and gave him something.
	narrator	The man touched his hat, took his bag, put on his coat and departed; not a soul took the slightest notice of the whole transaction.
	narrator	When the man had fairly gone, we three crossed the street and knocked at the door.
	narrator	It was immediately opened by Quincey Morris, beside whom stood Lord Godalming lighting a cigar.
	lord godalming	The place smells so vilely,
	narrator	said the latter as we came in.
	narrator	It did indeed smell vilely--like the old chapel at Carfax--and with our previous experience it was plain to us that the Count had been using the place pretty freely.
	narrator	We moved to explore the house, all keeping together in case of attack; for we knew we had a strong and wily enemy to deal with
	narrator	and as yet we did not know whether the Count might not be in the house.
	narrator	In the dining-room, which lay at the back of the hall, we found eight boxes of earth.
	narrator	Eight boxes only out of the nine, which we sought!
	narrator	Our work was not over, and would never be until we should have found the missing box.
	narrator	First we opened the shutters of the window which looked out across a narrow stone-flagged yard at the blank face of a stable
	narrator	pointed to look like the front of a miniature house.
	narrator	There were no windows in it, so we were not afraid of being over-looked.
	narrator	We did not lose any time in examining the chests.
	narrator	With the tools which we had brought with us we opened them, one by one, and treated them as we had treated those others in the old chapel.
	narrator	It was evident to us that the Count was not at present in the house, and we proceeded to search for any of his effects.
	narrator	After a cursory glance at the rest of the rooms, from basement to attic, we came to the conclusion that the dining-room contained any effects which might belong to the Count; and so we proceeded to minutely examine them.
	narrator	They lay in a sort of orderly disorder on the great dining-room table.
	narrator	There were title deeds of the Piccadilly house in a great bundle; deeds of the purchase of the houses at Mile End and Bermondsey; note-paper
	narrator	envelopes, pens and ink.
	narrator	All were covered up in thin wrapping paper to keep them from the dust.
	narrator	There were also a clothes brush, a brush and comb, and a jug and basin--the latter containing dirty water which was reddened as if with blood.
	narrator	Last of all was a little heap of keys of all sorts and sizes, probably those belonging to the other houses.
	narrator	When we had examined this last find, Lord Godalming and Quincey Morris taking accurate notes of the various addresses of the houses in the East and the South
	narrator	took with them the keys in a great bunch, and set out to destroy the boxes in these places.
	narrator	The rest of us are, with what patience we can, waiting their return--or the coming of the Count.
