	narrator	CHAPTER VII
	narrator	CUTTING FROM "THE DAILYGRAPH," 8 AUGUST
	narrator	(_Pasted in Mina Murray's Journal._)
	narrator	From a Correspondent.
	narrator	_Whitby_
	narrator	One of the greatest and suddenest storms on record has just been experienced here, with results both strange and unique.
	narrator	The weather had been somewhat sultry, but not to any degree uncommon in the month of August.
	narrator	Saturday evening was as fine as was ever known, and the great body of holiday-makers laid out yesterday for visits to Mulgrave Woods
	narrator	Robin Hood's Bay, Rig Mill, Runswick, Staithes, and the various trips in the neighbourhood of Whitby.
	narrator	The steamers _Emma_ and _Scarborough_ made trips up and down the coast, and there was an unusual amount of "tripping" both to and from Whitby.
	narrator	The day was unusually fine till the afternoon, when some of the gossips who frequent the East Cliff churchyard
	narrator	and from that commanding eminence watch the wide sweep of sea visible to the north and east
	narrator	called attention to a sudden show of "mares'-tails" high in the sky to the north-west.
	narrator	The wind was then blowing from the south-west in the mild degree which in barometrical language is ranked "No. 2: light breeze."
	narrator	The coastguard on duty at once made report, and one old fisherman, who for more than half a century has kept watch on weather signs from the East Cliff
	narrator	foretold in an emphatic manner the coming of a sudden storm.
	narrator	The approach of sunset was so very beautiful, so grand in its masses of splendidly-coloured clouds, that there was quite an assemblage on the walk along the cliff in the old churchyard to enjoy the beauty.
	narrator	Before the sun dipped below the black mass of Kettleness, standing boldly athwart the western sky, its downward way was marked by myriad clouds of every sunset-colour--flame
	narrator	purple, pink, green, violet, and all the tints of gold; with here and there masses not large
	narrator	but of seemingly absolute blackness, in all sorts of shapes, as well outlined as colossal silhouettes.
	narrator	The experience was not lost on the painters, and doubtless some of the sketches of the "Prelude to the Great Storm" will grace the R.
	narrator	A. and R.
	narrator	I. walls in May next.
	narrator	More than one captain made up his mind then and there that his "cobble" or his "mule," as they term the different classes of boats
	narrator	would remain in the harbour till the storm had passed.
	narrator	The wind fell away entirely during the evening, and at midnight there was a dead calm, a sultry heat
	narrator	and that prevailing intensity which, on the approach of thunder, affects persons of a sensitive nature.
	narrator	There were but few lights in sight at sea, for even the coasting steamers, which usually "hug" the shore so closely
	narrator	kept well to seaward, and but few fishing-boats were in sight.
	narrator	The only sail noticeable was a foreign schooner with all sails set, which was seemingly going westwards.
	narrator	The foolhardiness or ignorance of her officers was a prolific theme for comment whilst she remained in sight
	narrator	and efforts were made to signal her to reduce sail in face of her danger.
	narrator	Before the night shut down she was seen with sails idly flapping as she gently rolled on the undulating swell of the sea
	narrator	As idle as a painted ship upon a painted ocean.
	narrator	Shortly before ten o'clock the stillness of the air grew quite oppressive, and the silence was so marked that the bleating of a sheep inland or the barking of a dog in the town was distinctly heard
	narrator	and the band on the pier, with its lively French air, was like a discord in the great harmony of nature's silence.
	narrator	A little after midnight came a strange sound from over the sea, and high overhead the air began to carry a strange
	narrator	faint, hollow booming.
	narrator	Then without warning the tempest broke.
	narrator	With a rapidity which, at the time, seemed incredible, and even afterwards is impossible to realize, the whole aspect of nature at once became convulsed.
	narrator	The waves rose in growing fury, each overtopping its fellow, till in a very few minutes the lately glassy sea was like a roaring and devouring monster.
	narrator	White-crested waves beat madly on the level sands and rushed up the shelving cliffs; others broke over the piers
	narrator	and with their spume swept the lanthorns of the lighthouses which rise from the end of either pier of Whitby Harbour.
	narrator	The wind roared like thunder, and blew with such force that it was with difficulty that even strong men kept their feet
	narrator	or clung with grim clasp to the iron stanchions.
	narrator	It was found necessary to clear the entire piers from the mass of onlookers, or else the fatalities of the night would have been increased manifold.
	narrator	To add to the difficulties and dangers of the time, masses of sea-fog came drifting inland--white, wet clouds
	narrator	which swept by in ghostly fashion, so dank and damp and cold that it needed but little effort of imagination to think that the spirits of those lost at sea were touching their living brethren with the clammy hands of death
	narrator	and many a one shuddered as the wreaths of sea-mist swept by.
	narrator	At times the mist cleared, and the sea for some distance could be seen in the glare of the lightning
	narrator	which now came thick and fast, followed by such sudden peals of thunder that the whole sky overhead seemed trembling under the shock of the footsteps of the storm.
	narrator	Some of the scenes thus revealed were of immeasurable grandeur and of absorbing interest--the sea, running mountains high
	narrator	threw skywards with each wave mighty masses of white foam, which the tempest seemed to snatch at and whirl away into space; here and there a fishing-boat
	narrator	with a rag of sail, running madly for shelter before the blast; now and again the white wings of a storm-tossed sea-bird.
	narrator	On the summit of the East Cliff the new searchlight was ready for experiment, but had not yet been tried.
	narrator	The officers in charge of it got it into working order, and in the pauses of the inrushing mist swept with it the surface of the sea.
	narrator	Once or twice its service was most effective, as when a fishing-boat, with gunwale under water, rushed into the harbour
	narrator	able, by the guidance of the sheltering light, to avoid the danger of dashing against the piers.
	narrator	As each boat achieved the safety of the port there was a shout of joy from the mass of people on shore
	narrator	a shout which for a moment seemed to cleave the gale and was then swept away in its rush.
	narrator	Before long the searchlight discovered some distance away a schooner with all sails set, apparently the same vessel which had been noticed earlier in the evening.
	narrator	The wind had by this time backed to the east, and there was a shudder amongst the watchers on the cliff as they realized the terrible danger in which she now was.
	narrator	Between her and the port lay the great flat reef on which so many good ships have from time to time suffered
	narrator	and, with the wind blowing from its present quarter, it would be quite impossible that she should fetch the entrance of the harbour.
	narrator	It was now nearly the hour of high tide, but the waves were so great that in their troughs the shallows of the shore were almost visible
	narrator	and the schooner, with all sails set, was rushing with such speed that, in the words of one old salt
	narrator	"she must fetch up somewhere, if it was only in hell."
	narrator	Then came another rush of sea-fog, greater than any hitherto--a mass of dank mist, which seemed to close on all things like a grey pall
	narrator	and left available to men only the organ of hearing, for the roar of the tempest, and the crash of the thunder
	narrator	and the booming of the mighty billows came through the damp oblivion even louder than before.
	narrator	The rays of the searchlight were kept fixed on the harbour mouth across the East Pier, where the shock was expected
	narrator	and men waited breathless.
	narrator	The wind suddenly shifted to the north-east, and the remnant of the sea-fog melted in the blast; and then
	narrator	_mirabile dictu_, between the piers, leaping from wave to wave as it rushed at headlong speed, swept the strange schooner before the blast
	narrator	with all sail set, and gained the safety of the harbour.
	narrator	The searchlight followed her, and a shudder ran through all who saw her, for lashed to the helm was a corpse
	narrator	with drooping head, which swung horribly to and fro at each motion of the ship.
	narrator	No other form could be seen on deck at all.
	narrator	A great awe came on all as they realised that the ship, as if by a miracle
	narrator	had found the harbour, unsteered save by the hand of a dead man!
	narrator	However, all took place more quickly than it takes to write these words.
	narrator	The schooner paused not, but rushing across the harbour, pitched herself on that accumulation of sand and gravel washed by many tides and many storms into the south-east corner of the pier jutting under the East Cliff
	narrator	known locally as Tate Hill Pier.
	narrator	There was of course a considerable concussion as the vessel drove up on the sand heap.
	narrator	Every spar, rope, and stay was strained, and some of the "top-hammer" came crashing down.
	narrator	But, strangest of all, the very instant the shore was touched, an immense dog sprang up on deck from below
	narrator	as if shot up by the concussion, and running forward, jumped from the bow on the sand.
	narrator	Making straight for the steep cliff, where the churchyard hangs over the laneway to the East Pier so steeply that some of the flat tombstones--"thruff-steans" or "through-stones," as they call them in the Whitby vernacular--actually project over where the sustaining cliff has fallen away
	narrator	it disappeared in the darkness, which seemed intensified just beyond the focus of the searchlight.
	narrator	It so happened that there was no one at the moment on Tate Hill Pier, as all those whose houses are in close proximity were either in bed or were out on the heights above.
	narrator	Thus the coastguard on duty on the eastern side of the harbour, who at once ran down to the little pier
	narrator	was the first to climb on board.
	narrator	The men working the searchlight, after scouring the entrance of the harbour without seeing anything, then turned the light on the derelict and kept it there.
	narrator	The coastguard ran aft, and when he came beside the wheel, bent over to examine it, and recoiled at once as though under some sudden emotion.
	narrator	This seemed to pique general curiosity, and quite a number of people began to run.
	narrator	It is a good way round from the West Cliff by the Drawbridge to Tate Hill Pier
	narrator	but your correspondent is a fairly good runner, and came well ahead of the crowd.
	narrator	When I arrived, however, I found already assembled on the pier a crowd, whom the coastguard and police refused to allow to come on board.
	narrator	By the courtesy of the chief boatman, I was, as your correspondent, permitted to climb on deck
	narrator	and was one of a small group who saw the dead seaman whilst actually lashed to the wheel.
	narrator	It was no wonder that the coastguard was surprised, or even awed, for not often can such a sight have been seen.
	narrator	The man was simply fastened by his hands, tied one over the other, to a spoke of the wheel.
	narrator	Between the inner hand and the wood was a crucifix, the set of beads on which it was fastened being around both wrists and wheel
	narrator	and all kept fast by the binding cords.
	narrator	The poor fellow may have been seated at one time, but the flapping and buffeting of the sails had worked through the rudder of the wheel and dragged him to and fro
	narrator	so that the cords with which he was tied had cut the flesh to the bone.
	narrator	Accurate note was made of the state of things, and a doctor--Surgeon J.
	narrator	M.
	narrator	Caffyn, of 33, East Elliot Place--who came immediately after me, declared, after making examination, that the man must have been dead for quite two days.
	narrator	In his pocket was a bottle, carefully corked, empty save for a little roll of paper, which proved to be the addendum to the log.
	narrator	The coastguard said the man must have tied up his own hands, fastening the knots with his teeth.
	narrator	The fact that a coastguard was the first on board may save some complications, later on, in the Admiralty Court; for coastguards cannot claim the salvage which is the right of the first civilian entering on a derelict.
	narrator	Already, however, the legal tongues are wagging, and one young law student is loudly asserting that the rights of the owner are already completely sacrificed
	narrator	his property being held in contravention of the statutes of mortmain, since the tiller, as emblemship, if not proof
	narrator	of delegated possession, is held in a _dead hand_.
	narrator	It is needless to say that the dead steersman has been reverently removed from the place where he held his honourable watch and ward till death--a steadfastness as noble as that of the young Casabianca--and placed in the mortuary to await inquest.
	narrator	Already the sudden storm is passing, and its fierceness is abating; crowds are scattering homeward, and the sky is beginning to redden over the Yorkshire wolds.
	narrator	I shall send, in time for your next issue, further details of the derelict ship which found her way so miraculously into harbour in the storm.
	narrator	_Whitby_
	narrator	_9 August._--The sequel to the strange arrival of the derelict in the storm last night is almost more startling than the thing itself.
	narrator	It turns out that the schooner is a Russian from Varna, and is called the _Demeter_.
	narrator	She is almost entirely in ballast of silver sand, with only a small amount of cargo--a number of great wooden boxes filled with mould.
	narrator	This cargo was consigned to a Whitby solicitor, Mr.
	narrator	S.
	narrator	F.
	narrator	Billington, of 7, The Crescent, who this morning went aboard and formally took possession of the goods consigned to him.
	narrator	The Russian consul, too, acting for the charter-party, took formal possession of the ship, and paid all harbour dues
	narrator	etc.
	narrator	Nothing is talked about here to-day except the strange coincidence; the officials of the Board of Trade have been most exacting in seeing that every compliance has been made with existing regulations.
	narrator	As the matter is to be a “nine days’ wonder,” they are evidently determined that there shall be no cause of after complaint.
	narrator	A good deal of interest was abroad concerning the dog which landed when the ship struck, and more than a few of the members of the S.
	narrator	P.
	narrator	C.
	narrator	A., which is very strong in Whitby, have tried to befriend the animal.
	narrator	To the general disappointment, however, it was not to be found; it seems to have disappeared entirely from the town.
	narrator	It may be that it was frightened and made its way on to the moors, where it is still hiding in terror.
	narrator	There are some who look with dread on such a possibility, lest later on it should in itself become a danger
	narrator	for it is evidently a fierce brute.
	narrator	Early this morning a large dog, a half-bred mastiff belonging to a coal merchant close to Tate Hill Pier
	narrator	was found dead in the roadway opposite to its master’s yard.
	narrator	It had been fighting, and manifestly had had a savage opponent, for its throat was torn away
	narrator	and its belly was slit open as if with a savage claw.
	narrator	_Later._--By the kindness of the Board of Trade inspector, I have been permitted to look over the log-book of the _Demeter_
	narrator	which was in order up to within three days, but contained nothing of special interest except as to facts of missing men.
	narrator	The greatest interest, however, is with regard to the paper found in the bottle, which was to-day produced at the inquest; and a more strange narrative than the two between them unfold it has not been my lot to come across.
	narrator	As there is no motive for concealment, I am permitted to use them, and accordingly send you a rescript
	narrator	simply omitting technical details of seamanship and supercargo.
	narrator	It almost seems as though the captain had been seized with some kind of mania before he had got well into blue water
	narrator	and that this had developed persistently throughout the voyage.
	narrator	Of course my statement must be taken _cum grano_, since I am writing from the dictation of a clerk of the Russian consul
	narrator	who kindly translated for me, time being short.
	narrator	LOG OF THE “DEMETER.”
	narrator	_Varna to Whitby._
	narrator	_Written 18 July, things so strange happening, that I shall keep accurate note henceforth till we land._
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	On 6 July we finished taking in cargo, silver sand and boxes of earth.
	narrator	At noon set sail.
	narrator	East wind, fresh.
	narrator	Crew, five hands ... two mates, cook, and myself (captain).
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	On 11 July at dawn entered Bosphorus.
	narrator	Boarded by Turkish Customs officers.
	narrator	Backsheesh.
	narrator	All correct.
	narrator	Under way at 4 p. m.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	On 12 July through Dardanelles.
	narrator	More Customs officers and flagboat of guarding squadron.
	narrator	Backsheesh again.
	narrator	Work of officers thorough, but quick.
	narrator	Want us off soon.
	narrator	At dark passed into Archipelago.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	On 13 July passed Cape Matapan.
	narrator	Crew dissatisfied about something.
	narrator	Seemed scared, but would not speak out.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	On 14 July was somewhat anxious about crew.
	narrator	Men all steady fellows, who sailed with me before.
	narrator	Mate could not make out what was wrong; they only told him there was _something_, and crossed themselves.
	narrator	Mate lost temper with one of them that day and struck him.
	narrator	Expected fierce quarrel, but all was quiet.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	On 16 July mate reported in the morning that one of crew, Petrofsky, was missing.
	narrator	Could not account for it.
	narrator	Took larboard watch eight bells last night; was relieved by Abramoff, but did not go to bunk.
	narrator	Men more downcast than ever.
	narrator	All said they expected something of the kind, but would not say more than there was _something_ aboard.
	narrator	Mate getting very impatient with them; feared some trouble ahead.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	On 17 July, yesterday, one of the men, Olgaren, came to my cabin, and in an awestruck way confided to me that he thought there was a strange man aboard the ship.
	narrator	He said that in his watch he had been sheltering behind the deck-house, as there was a rain-storm
	narrator	when he saw a tall, thin man, who was not like any of the crew, come up the companion-way
	narrator	and go along the deck forward, and disappear.
	narrator	He followed cautiously, but when he got to bows found no one, and the hatchways were all closed.
	narrator	He was in a panic of superstitious fear, and I am afraid the panic may spread.
	narrator	To allay it, I shall to-day search entire ship carefully from stem to stern.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	Later in the day I got together the whole crew, and told them, as they evidently thought there was some one in the ship
	narrator	we would search from stem to stern.
	narrator	First mate angry; said it was folly, and to yield to such foolish ideas would demoralise the men; said he would engage to keep them out of trouble with a handspike.
	narrator	I let him take the helm, while the rest began thorough search, all keeping abreast, with lanterns: we left no corner unsearched.
	narrator	As there were only the big wooden boxes, there were no odd corners where a man could hide.
	narrator	Men much relieved when search over, and went back to work cheerfully.
	narrator	First mate scowled, but said nothing.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	22 July.--Rough weather last three days, and all hands busy with sails--no time to be frightened.
	narrator	Men seem to have forgotten their dread.
	narrator	Mate cheerful again, and all on good terms.
	narrator	Praised men for work in bad weather.
	narrator	Passed Gibralter and out through Straits.
	narrator	All well.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	24 July.--There seems some doom over this ship.
	narrator	Already a hand short, and entering on the Bay of Biscay with wild weather ahead, and yet last night another man lost--disappeared.
	narrator	Like the first, he came off his watch and was not seen again.
	narrator	Men all in a panic of fear; sent a round robin, asking to have double watch, as they fear to be alone.
	narrator	Mate angry.
	narrator	Fear there will be some trouble, as either he or the men will do some violence.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	28 July.--Four days in hell, knocking about in a sort of maelstrom, and the wind a tempest.
	narrator	No sleep for any one.
	narrator	Men all worn out.
	narrator	Hardly know how to set a watch, since no one fit to go on.
	narrator	Second mate volunteered to steer and watch, and let men snatch a few hours' sleep.
	narrator	Wind abating; seas still terrific, but feel them less, as ship is steadier.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	29 July.--Another tragedy.
	narrator	Had single watch to-night, as crew too tired to double.
	narrator	When morning watch came on deck could find no one except steersman.
	narrator	Raised outcry, and all came on deck.
	narrator	Thorough search, but no one found.
	narrator	Are now without second mate, and crew in a panic.
	narrator	Mate and I agreed to go armed henceforth and wait for any sign of cause.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	30 July.--Last night.
	narrator	Rejoiced we are nearing England.
	narrator	Weather fine, all sails set.
	narrator	Retired worn out; slept soundly; awaked by mate telling me that both man of watch and steersman missing.
	narrator	Only self and mate and two hands left to work ship.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	1 August.--Two days of fog, and not a sail sighted.
	narrator	Had hoped when in the English Channel to be able to signal for help or get in somewhere.
	narrator	Not having power to work sails, have to run before wind.
	narrator	Dare not lower, as could not raise them again.
	narrator	We seem to be drifting to some terrible doom.
	narrator	Mate now more demoralised than either of men.
	narrator	His stronger nature seems to have worked inwardly against himself.
	narrator	Men are beyond fear, working stolidly and patiently, with minds made up to worst.
	narrator	They are Russian, he Roumanian.
	narrator	* * * * *
	narrator	2 August, midnight.--Woke up from few minutes' sleep by hearing a cry, seemingly outside my port.
	narrator	Could see nothing in fog.
	narrator	Rushed on deck, and ran against mate.
	narrator	Tells me heard cry and ran, but no sign of man on watch.
	narrator	One more gone.
	narrator	Lord, help us!
	narrator	Mate says we must be past Straits of Dover, as in a moment of fog lifting he saw North Foreland
	narrator	just as he heard the man cry out.
	narrator	If so we are now off in the North Sea, and only God can guide us in the fog
	narrator	which seems to move with us; and God seems to have deserted us.
	narrator	_3 August_.--At midnight I went to relieve the man at the wheel, and when I got to it found no one there.
	narrator	The wind was steady, and as we ran before it there was no yawing.
	narrator	I dared not leave it, so shouted for the mate.
	narrator	After a few seconds he rushed up on deck in his flannels.
	narrator	He looked wild-eyed and haggard, and I greatly fear his reason has given way.
	narrator	He came close to me and whispered hoarsely, with his mouth to my ear, as though fearing the very air might hear:
	mate	_It_ is here; I know it, now. On the watch last night I saw It, like a man, tall and thin, and ghastly pale. It was in the bows, and looking out. I crept behind It, and gave It my knife; but the knife went through It, empty as the air.
	narrator	And as he spoke he took his knife and drove it savagely into space.
	narrator	Then he went on:
	mate	But It is here, and I'll find It. It is in the hold, perhaps in one of those boxes. I'll unscrew them one by one and see. You work the helm.
	narrator	And, with a warning look and his finger on his lip, he went below.
	narrator	There was springing up a choppy wind, and I could not leave the helm.
	narrator	I saw him come out on deck again with a tool-chest and a lantern, and go down the forward hatchway.
	narrator	He is mad, stark, raving mad, and it's no use my trying to stop him.
	narrator	He can't hurt those big boxes: they are invoiced as "clay," and to pull them about is as harmless a thing as he can do.
	narrator	So here I stay, and mind the helm, and write these notes.
	narrator	I can only trust in God and wait till the fog clears.
	narrator	Then, if I can't steer to any harbour with the wind that is, I shall cut down sails and lie by
	narrator	and signal for help....
	narrator	It is nearly all over now.
	narrator	Just as I was beginning to hope that the mate would come out calmer--for I heard him knocking away at something in the hold
	narrator	and work is good for him--there came up the hatchway a sudden, startled scream, which made my blood run cold
	narrator	and up on the deck he came as if shot from a gun--a raging madman, with his eyes rolling and his face convulsed with fear.
	mate	Save me! save me!
	narrator	and then looked round on the blanket of fog.
	narrator	His horror turned to despair, and in a steady voice he said:
	mate	You had better come too, captain, before it is too late. _He_ is there. I know the secret now. The sea will save me from Him, and it is all that is left!
	narrator	Before I could say a word, or move forward to seize him, he sprang on the bulwark and deliberately threw himself into the sea.
	narrator	I suppose I know the secret too, now.
	narrator	It was this madman who had got rid of the men one by one, and now he has followed them himself.
	narrator	God help me!
	narrator	How am I to account for all these horrors when I get to port? _When_ I get to port!
	narrator	Will that ever be?
	narrator	_4 August._--Still fog, which the sunrise cannot pierce.
	narrator	I know there is sunrise because I am a sailor, why else I know not.
	narrator	I dared not go below, I dared not leave the helm; so here all night I stayed
	narrator	and in the dimness of the night I saw It--Him!
	narrator	God forgive me, but the mate was right to jump overboard.
	narrator	It was better to die like a man; to die like a sailor in blue water no man can object.
	narrator	But I am captain, and I must not leave my ship.
	narrator	But I shall baffle this fiend or monster, for I shall tie my hands to the wheel when my strength begins to fail
	narrator	and along with them I shall tie that which He--It!--dare not touch; and then, come good wind or foul
	narrator	I shall save my soul, and my honour as a captain.
	narrator	I am growing weaker, and the night is coming on.
	narrator	If He can look me in the face again, I may not have time to act....
	narrator	If we are wrecked, mayhap this bottle may be found, and those who find it may understand; if not
	narrator	... well, then all men shall know that I have been true to my trust.
	narrator	God and the Blessed Virgin and the saints help a poor ignorant soul trying to do his duty....
	narrator	Of course the verdict was an open one.
	narrator	There is no evidence to adduce; and whether or not the man himself committed the murders there is now none to say.
	narrator	The folk here hold almost universally that the captain is simply a hero, and he is to be given a public funeral.
	narrator	Already it is arranged that his body is to be taken with a train of boats up the Esk for a piece and then brought back to Tate Hill Pier and up the abbey steps; for he is to be buried in the churchyard on the cliff.
	narrator	The owners of more than a hundred boats have already given in their names as wishing to follow him to the grave.
	narrator	No trace has ever been found of the great dog; at which there is much mourning, for
	narrator	with public opinion in its present state, he would, I believe, be adopted by the town.
	narrator	To-morrow will see the funeral; and so will end this one more "mystery of the sea."
	narrator	_Mina Murray’s Journal.
	narrator	_8 August._--Lucy was very restless all night, and I, too, could not sleep.
	narrator	The storm was fearful, and as it boomed loudly among the chimney-pots, it made me shudder.
	narrator	When a sharp puff came it seemed to be like a distant gun.
	narrator	Strangely enough, Lucy did not wake; but she got up twice and dressed herself.
	narrator	Fortunately, each time I awoke in time and managed to undress her without waking her, and got her back to bed.
	narrator	It is a very strange thing, this sleep-walking, for as soon as her will is thwarted in any physical way
	narrator	her intention, if there be any, disappears, and she yields herself almost exactly to the routine of her life.
	narrator	Early in the morning we both got up and went down to the harbour to see if anything had happened in the night.
	narrator	There were very few people about, and though the sun was bright, and the air clear and fresh
	narrator	the big, grim-looking waves, that seemed dark themselves because the foam that topped them was like snow
	narrator	forced themselves in through the narrow mouth of the harbour--like a bullying man going through a crowd.
	mina murray	I felt glad that Jonathan was not on the sea last night, but on land.
	mina murray	But, oh, is he on land or sea? Where is he, and how? I am getting fearfully anxious about him.
	mina murray	If I only knew what to do, and could do anything!
	narrator	_10 August.--The funeral of the poor sea-captain to-day was most touching.
	narrator	Every boat in the harbour seemed to be there, and the coffin was carried by captains all the way from Tate Hill Pier up to the churchyard.
	mina murray	Lucy came with me, and we went early to our old seat, whilst the cortège of boats went up the river to the Viaduct and came down again.
	narrator	We had a lovely view, and saw the procession nearly all the way.
	narrator	The poor fellow was laid to rest quite near our seat so that we stood on it when the time came and saw everything.
	narrator	Poor Lucy seemed much upset.
	narrator	She was restless and uneasy all the time, and I cannot but think that her dreaming at night is telling on her.
	narrator	She is quite odd in one thing: she will not admit to me that there is any cause for restlessness; or if there be
	narrator	she does not understand it herself.
	narrator	There is an additional cause in that poor old Mr.
	narrator	Swales was found dead this morning on our seat, his neck being broken.
	narrator	He had evidently, as the doctor said, fallen back in the seat in some sort of fright
	narrator	for there was a look of fear and horror on his face that the men said made them shudder.
	narrator	Poor dear old man!
	narrator	Perhaps he had seen Death with his dying eyes!
	narrator	Lucy is so sweet and sensitive that she feels influences more acutely than other people do.
	narrator	Just now she was quite upset by a little thing which I did not much heed, though I am myself very fond of animals.
	narrator	One of the men who came up here often to look for the boats was followed by his dog.
	narrator	The dog is always with him.
	narrator	They are both quiet persons, and I never saw the man angry, nor heard the dog bark.
	narrator	During the service the dog would not come to its master, who was on the seat with us
	narrator	but kept a few yards off, barking and howling.
	narrator	Its master spoke to it gently, and then harshly, and then angrily; but it would neither come nor cease to make a noise.
	narrator	It was in a sort of fury, with its eyes savage, and all its hairs bristling out like a cat's tail when puss is on the war-path.
	narrator	Finally the man, too, got angry, and jumped down and kicked the dog, and then took it by the scruff of the neck and half dragged and half threw it on the tombstone on which the seat is fixed.
	narrator	The moment it touched the stone the poor thing became quiet and fell all into a tremble.
	narrator	It did not try to get away, but crouched down, quivering and cowering, and was in such a pitiable state of terror that I tried
	narrator	though without effect, to comfort it.
	mina murray	Lucy was full of pity, too, but she did not attempt to touch the dog, but looked at it in an agonised sort of way.
	narrator	I greatly fear that she is of too super-sensitive a nature to go through the world without trouble.
	narrator	She will be dreaming of this to-night, I am sure.
	narrator	The whole agglomeration of things--the ship steered into port by a dead man; his attitude, tied to the wheel with a crucifix and beads; the touching funeral; the dog
	narrator	now furious and now in terror--will all afford material for her dreams.
	mina murray	I think it will be best for her to go to bed tired out physically, so I shall take her for a long walk by the cliffs to Robin Hood's Bay and back.
	mina murray	She ought not to have much inclination for sleep-walking then.
