	narrator	CHAPTER XII
	narrator	DR.
	narrator	SEWARD’S DIARY
	narrator	_18 September._--I drove at once to Hillingham and arrived early.
	narrator	Keeping my cab at the gate, I went up the avenue alone.
	narrator	I knocked gently and rang as quietly as possible, for I feared to disturb Lucy or her mother
	narrator	and hoped to only bring a servant to the door.
	narrator	After a while, finding no response, I knocked and rang again; still no answer.
	narrator	I cursed the laziness of the servants that they should lie abed at such an hour--for it was now ten o’clock--and so rang and knocked again
	narrator	but more impatiently, but still without response.
	narrator	Hitherto I had blamed only the servants, but now a terrible fear began to assail me.
	narrator	Was this desolation but another link in the chain of doom which seemed drawing tight around us?
	narrator	Was it indeed a house of death to which I had come, too late?
	narrator	I knew that minutes, even seconds of delay, might mean hours of danger to Lucy, if she had had again one of those frightful relapses; and I went round the house to try if I could find by chance an entry anywhere.
	narrator	I could find no means of ingress.
	narrator	Every window and door was fastened and locked, and I returned baffled to the porch.
	narrator	As I did so, I heard the rapid pit-pat of a swiftly driven horse’s feet.
	narrator	They stopped at the gate, and a few seconds later I met Van Helsing running up the avenue.
	narrator	When he saw me, he gasped out:
	van helsing	Then it was you, and just arrived. How is she? Are we too late? Did you not get my telegram?
	dr. seward	I answered as quickly and coherently as I could that I had only got his telegram early in the morning, and had not lost a minute in coming here, and that I could not make any one in the house hear me.
	van helsing	I answered as quickly and coherently as I could that I had only got his telegram early in the morning, and had not lost a minute in coming here, and that I could not make any one in the house hear me.
	van helsing	Then I fear we are too late. God’s will be done!
	van helsing	With his usual recuperative energy, he went on: Come. If there be no way open to get in, we must make one. Time is all in all to us now.
	narrator	We went round to the back of the house, where there was a kitchen window.
	narrator	The Professor took a small surgical saw from his case, and handing it to me, pointed to the iron bars which guarded the window.
	dr. seward	I attacked them at once and had very soon cut through three of them.
	narrator	Then with a long, thin knife we pushed back the fastening of the sashes and opened the window.
	dr. seward	I helped the Professor in, and followed him.
	narrator	There was no one in the kitchen or in the servants’ rooms, which were close at hand.
	narrator	We tried all the rooms as we went along, and in the dining-room, dimly lit by rays of light through the shutters
	narrator	found four servant-women lying on the floor.
	narrator	There was no need to think them dead, for their stertorous breathing and the acrid smell of laudanum in the room left no doubt as to their condition.
	van helsing	We can attend to them later.
	narrator	Then we ascended to Lucy’s room.
	narrator	For an instant or two we paused at the door to listen, but there was no sound that we could hear.
	narrator	With white faces and trembling hands, we opened the door gently, and entered the room.
	narrator	How shall I describe what we saw?
	narrator	On the bed lay two women, Lucy and her mother.
	narrator	The latter lay farthest in, and she was covered with a white sheet, the edge of which had been blown back by the draught through the broken window
	narrator	showing the drawn, white face, with a look of terror fixed upon it.
	narrator	By her side lay Lucy, with face white and still more drawn.
	narrator	The flowers which had been round her neck we found upon her mother’s bosom, and her throat was bare
	narrator	showing the two little wounds which we had noticed before, but looking horribly white and mangled.
	van helsing	It is not yet too late! Quick! quick! Bring the brandy!
	dr. seward	I flew downstairs and returned with it, taking care to smell and taste it, lest it, too, were drugged like the decanter of sherry which I found on the table.
	narrator	The maids were still breathing, but more restlessly, and I fancied that the narcotic was wearing off.
	narrator	I did not stay to make sure, but returned to Van Helsing.
	van helsing	I can do this, all that can be at the present. You go wake those maids.
	van helsing	Flick them in the face with a wet towel, and flick them hard.
	van helsing	Make them get heat and fire and a warm bath.
	van helsing	This poor soul is nearly as cold as that beside her. She will need be heated before we can do anything more.
	dr. seward	I went at once, and found little difficulty in waking three of the women.
	narrator	The fourth was only a young girl, and the drug had evidently affected her more strongly, so I lifted her on the sofa and let her sleep.
	narrator	The others were dazed at first, but as remembrance came back to them they cried and sobbed in a hysterical manner.
	dr. seward	I was stern with them, however, and would not let them talk.
	dr. seward	I told them that one life was bad enough to lose, and that if they delayed they would sacrifice Miss Lucy.
	narrator	So, sobbing and crying, they went about their way, half clad as they were, and prepared fire and water.
	narrator	Fortunately, the kitchen and boiler fires were still alive, and there was no lack of hot water.
	narrator	We got a bath and carried Lucy out as she was and placed her in it.
	narrator	Whilst we were busy chafing her limbs there was a knock at the hall door.
	narrator	One of the maids ran off, hurried on some more clothes, and opened it.
	narrator	Then she returned and whispered to us that there was a gentleman who had come with a message from Mr.
	narrator	Holmwood.
	dr. seward	I bade her simply tell him that he must wait, for we could see no one now.
	narrator	She went away with the message, and, engrossed with our work, I clean forgot all about him.
	narrator	I never saw in all my experience the Professor work in such deadly earnest.
	narrator	I knew--as he knew--that it was a stand-up fight with death, and in a pause told him so.
	van helsing	If that were all, I would stop here where we are now, and let her fade away into peace, for I see no light in life over her horizon.
	narrator	He went on with his work with, if possible, renewed and more frenzied vigour.
	narrator	Presently we both began to be conscious that the heat was beginning to be of some effect.
	narrator	Lucy's heart beat a trifle more audibly to the stethoscope, and her lungs had a perceptible movement.
	van helsing	The first gain is ours! Check to the King!
	narrator	We took Lucy into another room, which had by now been prepared, and laid her in bed and forced a few drops of brandy down her throat.
	narrator	I noticed that Van Helsing tied a soft silk handkerchief round her throat.
	narrator	She was still unconscious, and was quite as bad as, if not worse than, we had ever seen her.
	van helsing	call in one of the women, and tell her to stay with her and not to take her eyes off her till we returned
	narrator	and then beckoned me out of the room
	narrator	We must consult as to what is to be done,
	narrator	he said as we descended the stairs.
	narrator	In the hall he opened the dining-room door, and we passed in, he closing the door carefully behind him.
	narrator	The shutters had been opened, but the blinds were already down, with that obedience to the etiquette of death which the British woman of the lower classes always rigidly observes.
	narrator	The room was, therefore, dimly dark.
	narrator	It was, however, light enough for our purposes.
	narrator	Van Helsing's sternness was somewhat relieved by a look of perplexity.
	narrator	He was evidently torturing his mind about something, so I waited for an instant, and he spoke:
	van helsing	What are we to do now? Where are we to turn for help? We must have another transfusion of blood, and that soon, or that poor girl's life won't be worth an hour's purchase.
	van helsing	You are exhausted already; I am exhausted too.
	van helsing	I fear to trust those women, even if they would have courage to submit.
	van helsing	What are we to do for some one who will open his veins for her?
	narrator	What's the matter with me, anyhow?
	narrator	The voice came from the sofa across the room, and its tones brought relief and joy to my heart
	narrator	for they were those of Quincey Morris.
	narrator	Van Helsing started angrily at the first sound, but his face softened and a glad look came into his eyes as I cried out:
	dr. seward	Quincey Morris!
	narrator	and rushed towards him with outstretched hands.
	dr. seward	What brought you here?
	narrator	I cried as our hands met.
	quincey morris	I guess Art is the cause.
	narrator	He handed me a telegram:
	narrator	Have not heard from Seward for three days, and am terribly anxious.
	narrator	Cannot leave.
	narrator	Father still in same condition.
	narrator	Send me word how Lucy is.
	narrator	Do not delay.--HOLMWOOD.
	van helsing	I think I came just in the nick of time. You know you have only to tell me what to do.
	narrator	Van Helsing strode forward, and took his hand, looking him straight in the eyes as he said:
	van helsing	A brave man’s blood is the best thing on this earth when a woman is in trouble. You’re a man and no mistake. Well, the devil may work against us for all he’s worth, but God sends us men when we want them.
	narrator	Once again we went through that ghastly operation.
	narrator	I have not the heart to go through with the details.
	narrator	Lucy had got a terrible shock and it told on her more than before, for though plenty of blood went into her veins
	narrator	her body did not respond to the treatment as well as on the other occasions.
	narrator	Her struggle back into life was something frightful to see and hear.
	narrator	However, the action of both heart and lungs improved, and Van Helsing made a subcutaneous injection of morphia
	narrator	as before, and with good effect.
	narrator	Her faint became a profound slumber.
	narrator	The Professor watched whilst I went downstairs with Quincey Morris, and sent one of the maids to pay off one of the cabmen who were waiting.
	narrator	I left Quincey lying down after having a glass of wine, and told the cook to get ready a good breakfast.
	narrator	Then a thought struck me, and I went back to the room where Lucy now was.
	narrator	When I came softly in, I found Van Helsing with a sheet or two of note-paper in his hand.
	narrator	He had evidently read it, and was thinking it over as he sat with his hand to his brow.
	narrator	There was a look of grim satisfaction in his face, as of one who has had a doubt solved.
	van helsing	It dropped from Lucy’s breast when we carried her to the bath.
	narrator	When I had read it, I stood looking at the Professor, and after a pause asked him:
	narrator	In God’s name, what does it all mean?
	narrator	Was she, or is she, mad; or what sort of horrible danger is it?
	narrator	I was so bewildered that I did not know what to say more.
	van helsing	Do not trouble about it now. Forget it for the present. You shall know and understand it all in good time; but it will be later.
	van helsing	And now what is it that you came to me to say?
	narrator	This brought me back to fact, and I was all myself again.
	narrator	"I came to speak about the certificate of death. If we do not act properly and wisely
	narrator	there may be an inquest, and that paper would have to be produced."
	narrator	"I am in hopes that we need have no inquest, for if we had it would surely kill poor Lucy
	narrator	if nothing else did."
	narrator	"I know, and you know, and the other doctor who attended her knows, that Mrs. Westenra had disease of the heart
	narrator	and we can certify that she died of it."
	narrator	"Let us fill up the certificate at once, and I shall take it myself to the registrar and go on to the undertaker."
	narrator	Good, oh my friend John!
	narrator	Well thought of!
	narrator	Truly Miss Lucy, if she be sad in the foes that beset her, is at least happy in the friends that love her.
	narrator	One, two, three, all open their veins for her, besides one old man.
	narrator	Ah yes, I know, friend John; I am not blind!
	narrator	I love you all the more for it!
	narrator	Now go.
	narrator	In the hall I met Quincey Morris, with a telegram for Arthur telling him that Mrs.
	narrator	Westenra was dead; that Lucy also had been ill, but was now going on better; and that Van Helsing and I were with her.
	narrator	I told him where I was going, and he hurried me out, but as I was going said:
	quincey morris	When you come back, Jack, may I have two words with you all to ourselves?
	narrator	I nodded in reply and went out.
	narrator	I found no difficulty about the registration, and arranged with the local undertaker to come up in the evening to measure for the coffin and to make arrangements.
	narrator	When I got back Quincey was waiting for me.
	narrator	I told him I would see him as soon as I knew about Lucy, and went up to her room.
	narrator	She was still sleeping, and the Professor seemingly had not moved from his seat at her side.
	narrator	From his putting his finger to his lips, I gathered that he expected her to wake before long and was afraid of forestalling nature.
	narrator	So I went down to Quincey and took him into the breakfast-room, where the blinds were not drawn down
	narrator	and which was a little more cheerful, or rather less cheerless, than the other rooms.
	narrator	When we were alone, he said to me:
	quincey morris	Jack Seward, I don't want to shove myself in anywhere where I've no right to be; but this is no ordinary case.
	quincey morris	You know I loved that girl and wanted to marry her; but, although that's all past and gone, I can't help feeling anxious about her all the same.
	quincey morris	What is it that's wrong with her?
	quincey morris	The Dutchman--and a fine old fellow he is; I can see that--said, that time you two came into the room, that you must have_another_ transfusion of blood, and that both you and he were exhausted.
	quincey morris	Now I know well that you medical men speak_in camera_, and that a man must not expect to know what they consult about in private.
	quincey morris	But this is no common matter, and, whatever it is, I have done my part.
	quincey morris	Is not that so?
	narrator	That's so,
	quincey morris	I take it that both you and Van Helsing had done already what I did to-day.
	quincey morris	Is not that so?
	narrator	That's so.
	narrator	And I guess Art was in it too.
	narrator	When I saw him four days ago down at his own place he looked queer.
	narrator	I have not seen anything pulled down so quick since I was on the Pampas and had a mare that I was fond of go to grass all in a night.
	narrator	One of those big bats that they call vampires had got at her in the night, and what with his gorge and the vein left open
	narrator	there wasn't enough blood in her to let her stand up, and I had to put a bullet through her as she lay.
	narrator	Jack, if you may tell me without betraying confidence, Arthur was the first, is not that so?
	narrator	As he spoke the poor fellow looked terribly anxious.
	narrator	He was in a torture of suspense regarding the woman he loved, and his utter ignorance of the terrible mystery which seemed to surround her intensified his pain.
	narrator	His very heart was bleeding, and it took all the manhood of him--and there was a royal lot of it
	narrator	too--to keep him from breaking down.
	narrator	I paused before answering, for I felt that I must not betray anything which the Professor wished kept secret; but already he knew so much
	narrator	and guessed so much, that there could be no reason for not answering, so I answered in the same phrase:
	dr. seward	That's so.
	narrator	And how long has this been going on?
	dr. seward	About ten days.
	narrator	Ten days!
	narrator	Then I guess, Jack Seward, that that poor pretty creature that we all love has had put into her veins within that time the blood of four strong men.
	narrator	Man alive, her whole body wouldn't hold it.
	narrator	Then, coming close to me, he spoke in a fierce half-whisper:
	dr. seward	What took it out?
	narrator	I shook my head.
	narrator	"That," I said, "is the crux. Van Helsing is simply frantic about it, and I am at my wits' end. I can't even hazard a guess. There has been a series of little circumstances which have thrown out all our calculations as to Lucy being properly watched. But these shall not occur again. Here we stay until all be well--or ill."
	quincey morris	Count me in.
	quincey morris	You and the Dutchman will tell me what to do, and I'll do it.
	narrator	When she woke late in the afternoon, Lucy's first movement was to feel in her breast, and
	narrator	to my surprise, produced the paper which Van Helsing had given me to read.
	narrator	The careful Professor had replaced it where it had come from, lest on waking she should be alarmed.
	narrator	Her eye then lit on Van Helsing and on me too, and gladdened.
	narrator	Then she looked around the room, and seeing where she was, shuddered; she gave a loud cry
	narrator	and put her poor thin hands before her pale face.
	narrator	We both understood what that meant--that she had realised to the full her mother's death; so we tried what we could to comfort her.
	narrator	Doubtless sympathy eased her somewhat, but she was very low in thought and spirit, and wept silently and weakly for a long time.
	narrator	We told her that either or both of us would now remain with her all the time
	narrator	and that seemed to comfort her.
	narrator	Towards dusk she fell into a doze.
	narrator	Here a very odd thing occurred.
	narrator	Whilst still asleep she took the paper from her breast and tore it in two.
	narrator	Van Helsing stepped over and took the pieces from her.
	narrator	All the same, however, she went on with the action of tearing, as though the material were still in her hands; finally she lifted her hands and opened them as though scattering the fragments.
	narrator	Van Helsing seemed surprised, and his brows gathered as if in thought, but he said nothing.
	narrator	_19 September.--All last night she slept fitfully, being always afraid to sleep, and something weaker when she woke from it.
	narrator	The Professor and I took it in turns to watch, and we never left her for a moment unattended.
	narrator	Quincey Morris said nothing about his intention, but I knew that all night long he patrolled round and round the house.
	narrator	When the day came, its searching light showed the ravages in poor Lucy's strength.
	narrator	She was hardly able to turn her head, and the little nourishment which she could take seemed to do her no good.
	narrator	At times she slept, and both Van Helsing and I noticed the difference in her, between sleeping and waking.
	narrator	Whilst asleep she looked stronger, although more haggard, and her breathing was softer;
	narrator	her open mouth showed the pale gums drawn back from the teeth, which thus looked positively longer and sharper than usual;
	narrator	when she woke the softness of her eyes evidently changed the expression, for she looked her own self
	narrator	although a dying one.
	narrator	In the afternoon she asked for Arthur, and we telegraphed for him.
	narrator	Quincey went off to meet him at the station.
	narrator	When he arrived it was nearly six o'clock, and the sun was setting full and warm, and the red light streamed in through the window and gave more colour to the pale cheeks.
	narrator	When he saw her, Arthur was simply choking with emotion, and none of us could speak.
	narrator	In the hours that had passed, the fits of sleep, or the comatose condition that passed for it
	narrator	had grown more frequent, so that the pauses when conversation was possible were shortened.
	narrator	Arthur's presence, however, seemed to act as a stimulant; she rallied a little, and spoke to him more brightly than she had done since we arrived.
	narrator	He too pulled himself together, and spoke as cheerily as he could, so that the best was made of everything.
	narrator	It was now nearly one o'clock, and he and Van Helsing are sitting with her.
	narrator	I am to relieve them in a quarter of an hour, and I am entering this on Lucy's phonograph.
	narrator	Until six o'clock they are to try to rest.
	narrator	I fear that to-morrow will end our watching, for the shock has been too great; the poor child cannot rally.
	narrator	God help us all.
	narrator	Letter, Mina Harker to Lucy Westenra.
	narrator	(Unopened by her.)
	narrator	17 September.
	mina harker	My dearest Lucy,
	narrator	It seems age since I heard from you, or indeed since I wrote.
	mina harker	You will pardon me, I know, for all my faults when you have read all my budget of news.
	mina harker	Well, I got my husband back all right; when we arrived at Exeter there was a carriage waiting for us, and in it, though he had an attack of gout, Mr. Hawkins.
	mina harker	He took us to his house, where there were rooms for us all nice and comfortable, and we dined together.
	mina harker	After dinner Mr. Hawkins said:
	mr. hawkins	My dears, I want to drink your health and prosperity; and may every blessing attend you both.
	mr. hawkins	I know you both from children, and have, with love and pride, seen you grow up.
	mr. hawkins	Now I want you to make your home here with me.
	mr. hawkins	I have left to me neither chick nor child; all are gone, and in my will I have left you everything.
	mina harker	I cried, Lucy dear, as Jonathan and the old man clasped hands.
	mina harker	Our evening was a very, very happy one.
	mina harker	So here we are, installed in this beautiful old house, and from both my bedroom and the drawing-room I can see the great elms of the cathedral close, with their great black stems standing out against the old yellow stone of the cathedral and I can hear the rooks overhead cawing and cawing and chattering and gossiping all day, after the manner of rooks--and humans.
	mina harker	I am busy, I need not tell you, arranging things and housekeeping.
	mina harker	Jonathan and Mr. Hawkins are busy all day; for, now that Jonathan is a partner, Mr. Hawkins wants to tell him all about the clients.
	mina harker	How is your dear mother getting on?
	mina harker	I wish I could run up to town for a day or two to see you, dear, but I dare not go yet, with so much on my shoulders; and Jonathan wants looking after still.
	mina harker	He is beginning to put some flesh on his bones again, but he was terribly weakened by the long illness; even now he sometimes starts out of his sleep in a sudden way and awakes all trembling until I can coax him back to his usual placidity.
	mina harker	However, thank God, these occasions grow less frequent as the days go on, and they will in time pass away altogether, I trust.
	mina harker	And now I have told you my news, let me ask yours.
	mina harker	When are you to be married, and where, and who is to perform the ceremony, and what are you to wear, and is it to be a public or a private wedding?
	mina harker	Tell me all about it, dear; tell me all about everything, for there is nothing which interests you which will not be dear to me.
	mina harker	Jonathan asks me to send his respectful duty, but I do not think that is good enough from the junior partner of the important firm Hawkins & Harker; and so, as you love me, and he loves me, and I love you with all the moods and tenses of the verb, I send you simply his love instead.
	mina harker	Good-bye, my dearest Lucy, and all blessings on you.
	mina harker	Yours,
	mina harker	MINA HARKER.
	narrator	Report from Patrick Hennessey, M.
	narrator	D., M.
	narrator	R.
	narrator	C.
	narrator	S.
	narrator	L.
	narrator	K.
	narrator	Q.
	narrator	C.
	narrator	P.
	narrator	I., etc., etc., to John Seward, M.
	narrator	D.
	narrator	20 September.
	patrick hennessey	My dear Sir,
	narrator	In accordance with your wishes, I enclose report of the conditions of everything left in my charge....
	narrator	With regard to patient, Renfield, there is more to say.
	narrator	He has had another outbreak, which might have had a dreadful ending, but which, as it fortunately happened
	narrator	was unattended with any unhappy results.
	narrator	This afternoon a carrier's cart with two men made a call at the empty house whose grounds abut on ours--the house to which
	narrator	you will remember, the patient twice ran away.
	narrator	The men stopped at our gate to ask the porter their way, as they were strangers.
	narrator	I was myself looking out of the study window, having a smoke after dinner, and saw one of them come up to the house.
	narrator	As he passed the window of Renfield's room, the patient began to rate him from within, and called him all the foul names he could lay his tongue to.
	narrator	The man, who seemed a decent fellow enough, contented himself by telling him to 'shut up for a foul-mouthed beggar,' whereon our man accused him of robbing him and wanting to murder him and said that he would hinder him if he were to swing for it.
	narrator	I opened the window and signed to the man not to notice, so he contented himself after looking the place over and making up his mind as to what kind of a place he had got to by saying: 'Lor' bless yer
	narrator	sir, I wouldn't mind what was said to me in a bloomin' madhouse.
	narrator	I pity ye and the guv'nor for havin' to live in the house with a wild beast like that.'
	narrator	Then he asked his way civilly enough, and I told him where the gate of the empty house was; he went away
	narrator	followed by threats and curses and revilings from our man.
	narrator	I went down to see if I could make out any cause for his anger, since he is usually such a well-behaved man
	narrator	and except his violent fits nothing of the kind had ever occurred.
	narrator	I found him, to my astonishment, quite composed and most genial in his manner.
	narrator	I tried to get him to talk of the incident, but he blandly asked me questions as to what I meant
	narrator	and led me to believe that he was completely oblivious of the affair.
	narrator	It was, I am sorry to say, however, only another instance of his cunning, for within half an hour I heard of him again.
	narrator	This time he had broken out through the window of his room, and was running down the avenue.
	narrator	I called to the attendants to follow me, and ran after him, for I feared he was intent on some mischief.
	narrator	My fear was justified when I saw the same cart which had passed before coming down the road
	narrator	having on it some great wooden boxes.
	narrator	The men were wiping their foreheads, and were flushed in the face, as if with violent exercise.
	narrator	Before I could get up to him the patient rushed at them, and pulling one of them off the cart
	narrator	began to knock his head against the ground.
	narrator	If I had not seized him just at the moment I believe he would have killed the man there and then.
	narrator	The other fellow jumped down and struck him over the head with the butt-end of his heavy whip.
	narrator	It was a terrible blow; but he did not seem to mind it, but seized him also
	narrator	and struggled with the three of us, pulling us to and fro as if we were kittens.
	narrator	You know I am no light weight, and the others were both burly men.
	narrator	At first he was silent in his fighting; but as we began to master him, and the attendants were putting a strait-waistcoat on him
	narrator	he began to shout: 'I'll frustrate them!
	narrator	They shan't rob me! they shan't murder me by inches!
	narrator	I'll fight for my Lord and Master!' and all sorts of similar incoherent ravings.
	narrator	It was with very considerable difficulty that they got him back to the house and put him in the padded room.
	narrator	One of the attendants, Hardy, had a finger broken.
	narrator	However, I set it all right; and he is going on well.
	narrator	The two carriers were at first loud in their threats of actions for damages, and promised to rain all the penalties of the law on us.
	narrator	Their threats were, however, mingled with some sort of indirect apology for the defeat of the two of them by a feeble madman.
	narrator	They said that if it had not been for the way their strength had been spent in carrying and raising the heavy boxes to the cart they would have made short work of him.
	narrator	They gave as another reason for their defeat the extraordinary state of drouth to which they had been reduced by the dusty nature of their occupation and the reprehensible distance from the scene of their labours of any place of public entertainment.
	narrator	I quite understood their drift, and after a stiff glass of grog, or rather more of the same
	narrator	and with each a sovereign in hand, they made light of the attack, and swore that they would encounter a worse madman any day for the pleasure of meeting so 'bloomin' good a bloke' as your correspondent.
	narrator	I took their names and addresses, in case they might be needed.
	narrator	They are as follows:--Jack Smollet, of Dudding's Rents, King George's Road, Great Walworth, and Thomas Snelling, Peter Farley's Row
	narrator	Guide Court, Bethnal Green.
	narrator	They are both in the employment of Harris & Sons, Moving and Shipment Company, Orange Master's Yard
	narrator	Soho.
	narrator	I shall report to you any matter of interest occurring here, and shall wire you at once if there is anything of importance.
	narrator	Believe me, dear Sir,
	narrator	Yours faithfully,
	narrator	PATRICK HENNESSEY.
	narrator	Letter, Mina Harker to Lucy Westenra.
	narrator	(Unopened by her.)
	narrator	18 September.
	narrator	My dearest Lucy,
	narrator	- Dr.
	narrator	Seward (male): A physician who keeps a diary and is deeply involved in Lucy's medical care.
	narrator	He is devoted to helping Lucy and shows great concern for her wellbeing.
	narrator	- Van Helsing (male): A Dutch physician and expert who arrives at Hillingham to help with Lucy's condition.
	narrator	He is stern, knowledgeable, and takes charge of the medical situation.
	narrator	- Lucy Westenra (female): The main patient who falls ill and eventually dies.
	narrator	She is described as beautiful, with a sweet nature, and becomes the victim of supernatural forces.
	narrator	- Mrs.
	narrator	Westenra (female): Lucy's mother who dies from heart disease.
	narrator	She is found dead in her bed with a look of terror on her face.
	narrator	- Arthur Holmwood (male): Lucy's fiancé who arrives at Hillingham to see her.
	narrator	He is deeply affected by Lucy's illness and death, showing great love and devotion.
	narrator	- Quincey Morris (male): A friend of Arthur who arrives at Hillingham to help.
	narrator	He volunteers to give blood for Lucy and shows great courage in the face of danger.
	narrator	- Mina Harker (female): Lucy's friend who writes letters to her.
	narrator	She is married to Jonathan Harker and lives in London with him.
	narrator	- Jonathan Harker (male): Mina's husband who is a solicitor.
	narrator	He has recently returned from abroad and is dealing with Mr.
	narrator	Hawkins' death.
	narrator	- Mr.
	narrator	Hawkins (male): A wealthy benefactor who becomes a father figure to Jonathan Harker.
	narrator	He dies suddenly and leaves his fortune to Jonathan.
	narrator	- Patrick Hennessey (male): A doctor who works at the asylum where Renfield is kept.
	narrator	He reports on Renfield's condition and behavior.
	narrator	- Renfield (*male): A patient at the asylum who has violent episodes.
	narrator	He is described as having fits of anger and strange behavior.
	narrator	- Jack Smollet (male): A carrier who encounters Renfield and is threatened by him.
	narrator	He works for Harris & Sons Moving and Shipment Company.
	narrator	- Thomas Snelling (male): A carrier who encounters Renfield and is threatened by him.
	narrator	He works for Harris & Sons Moving and Shipment Company.
	narrator	PASSAGE:
	narrator	Such a sad blow has befallen us.
	narrator	Mr.
	narrator	Hawkins has died very suddenly.
	narrator	Some may not think it so sad for us, but we had both come to so love him that it really seems as though we had lost a father.
	narrator	I never knew either father or mother, so that the dear old man's death is a real blow to me.
	narrator	Jonathan is greatly distressed.
	narrator	It is not only that he feels sorrow, deep sorrow, for the dear, good man who has befriended him all his life
	narrator	and now at the end has treated him like his own son and left him a fortune which to people of our modest bringing up is wealth beyond the dream of avarice
	narrator	but Jonathan feels it on another account.
	narrator	He says the amount of responsibility which it puts upon him makes him nervous.
	narrator	He begins to doubt himself.
	narrator	I try to cheer him up, and _my_ belief in _him_ helps him to have a belief in himself.
	narrator	But it is here that the grave shock that he experienced tells upon him the most.
	narrator	Oh, it is too hard that a sweet, simple, noble, strong nature such as his--a nature which enabled him by our dear
	narrator	good friend's aid to rise from clerk to master in a few years--should be so injured that the very essence of its strength is gone.
	narrator	Forgive me, dear, if I worry you with my troubles in the midst of your own happiness; but
	narrator	Lucy dear, I must tell some one, for the strain of keeping up a brave and cheerful appearance to Jonathan tries me
	narrator	and I have no one here that I can confide in.
	narrator	I dread coming up to London, as we must do the day after to-morrow; for poor Mr.
	narrator	Hawkins left in his will that he was to be buried in the grave with his father.
	narrator	As there are no relations at all, Jonathan will have to be chief mourner.
	narrator	I shall try to run over to see you, dearest, if only for a few minutes.
	narrator	Forgive me for troubling you.
	narrator	With all blessings,
	narrator	Your loving
	narrator	MINA HARKER.
	narrator	Dr.
	narrator	Seward's Diary.
	narrator	20 September.--Only resolution and habit can let me make an entry to-night.
	narrator	I am too miserable, too low-spirited, too sick of the world and all in it, including life itself
	narrator	that I would not care if I heard this moment the flapping of the wings of the angel of death.
	narrator	And he has been flapping those grim wings to some purpose of late--Lucy's mother and Arthur's father
	narrator	and now....
	narrator	Let me get on with my work.
	narrator	I duly relieved Van Helsing in his watch over Lucy.
	narrator	We wanted Arthur to go to rest also, but he refused at first.
	narrator	It was only when I told him that we should want him to help us during the day
	narrator	and that we must not all break down for want of rest, lest Lucy should suffer, that he agreed to go.
	narrator	Van Helsing was very kind to him.
	narrator	"Come, my child," he said; "come with me. You are sick and weak, and have had much sorrow and much mental pain
	narrator	as well as that tax on your strength that we know of. You must not be alone; for to be alone is to be full of fears and alarms. Come to the drawing-room
	narrator	where there is a big fire, and there are two sofas. You shall lie on one, and I on the other
	narrator	and our sympathy will be comfort to each other, even though we do not speak, and even if we sleep." Arthur went off with him
	narrator	casting back a longing look on Lucy's face, which lay in her pillow, almost whiter than the lawn.
	narrator	She lay quite still, and I looked round the room to see that all was as it should be.
	narrator	I could see that the Professor had carried out in this room, as in the other, his purpose of using the garlic; the whole of the window-sashes reeked with it
	narrator	and round Lucy's neck, over the silk handkerchief which Van Helsing made her keep on, was a rough chaplet of the same odorous flowers.
	narrator	Lucy was breathing somewhat stertorously, and her face was at its worst, for the open mouth showed the pale gums.
	narrator	Her teeth, in the dim, uncertain light, seemed longer and sharper than they had been in the morning.
	narrator	In particular, by some trick of the light, the canine teeth looked longer and sharper than the rest.
	narrator	I sat down by her, and presently she moved uneasily.
	narrator	At the same moment there came a sort of dull flapping or buffeting at the window.
	narrator	I went over to it softly, and peeped out by the corner of the blind.
	narrator	There was a full moonlight, and I could see that the noise was made by a great bat
	narrator	which wheeled round--doubtless attracted by the light, although so dim--and every now and again struck the window with its wings.
	narrator	When I came back to my seat, I found that Lucy had moved slightly, and had torn away the garlic flowers from her throat.
	narrator	I replaced them as well as I could, and sat watching her.
	narrator	Presently she woke, and I gave her food, as Van Helsing had prescribed.
	narrator	She took but a little, and that languidly.
	narrator	There did not seem to be with her now the unconscious struggle for life and strength that had hitherto so marked her illness.
	narrator	It struck me as curious that the moment she became conscious she pressed the garlic flowers close to her.
	narrator	It was certainly odd that whenever she got into that lethargic state, with the stertorous breathing, she put the flowers from her; but that when she waked she clutched them close.
	narrator	There was no possibility of making any mistake about this, for in the long hours that followed
	narrator	she had many spells of sleeping and waking and repeated both actions many times.
	narrator	At six o'clock Van Helsing came to relieve me.
	narrator	Arthur had then fallen into a doze, and he mercifully let him sleep on.
	narrator	When he saw Lucy's face I could hear the sissing indraw of his breath, and he said to me in a sharp whisper: "Draw up the blind; I want light!" Then he bent down
	narrator	and, with his face almost touching Lucy's, examined her carefully.
	narrator	He removed the flowers and lifted the silk handkerchief from her throat.
	narrator	As he did so he started back, and I could hear his ejaculation, "Mein Gott!" as it was smothered in his throat.
	narrator	I bent over and looked, too, and as I noticed some queer chill came over me.
	narrator	The wounds on the throat had absolutely disappeared.
	narrator	For fully five minutes Van Helsing stood looking at her, with his face at its sternest.
	narrator	Then he turned to me and said calmly:
	narrator	She is dying.
	narrator	It will not be long now.
	narrator	It will be much difference, mark me, whether she dies conscious or in her sleep.
	narrator	Wake that poor boy, and let him come and see the last; he trusts us, and we have promised him.
	narrator	I went to the dining-room and waked him.
	narrator	He was dazed for a moment, but when he saw the sunlight streaming in through the edges of the shutters he thought he was late
	narrator	and expressed his fear.
	narrator	I assured him that Lucy was still asleep, but told him as gently as I could that both Van Helsing and I feared that the end was near.
	narrator	He covered his face with his hands, and slid down on his knees by the sofa, where he remained
	narrator	perhaps a minute, with his head buried, praying, whilst his shoulders shook with grief.
	narrator	I took him by the hand and raised him up.
	narrator	Come, my dear old fellow, summon all your fortitude: it will be best and easiest for her.
	narrator	When we came into Lucy's room I could see that Van Helsing had, with his usual forethought
	narrator	been putting matters straight and making everything look as pleasing as possible.
	narrator	He had even brushed Lucy's hair, so that it lay on the pillow in its usual sunny ripples.
	narrator	When we came into the room she opened her eyes, and seeing him, whispered softly:
	lucy westenra	Arthur! Oh, my love, I am so glad you have come!
	narrator	He was stooping to kiss her, when Van Helsing motioned him back.
	van helsing	No, not yet! Hold her hand; it will comfort her more.
	narrator	So Arthur took her hand and knelt beside her, and she looked her best, with all the soft lines matching the angelic beauty of her eyes.
	narrator	Then gradually her eyes closed, and she sank to sleep.
	narrator	For a little bit her breast heaved softly, and her breath came and went like a tired child's.
	narrator	And then insensibly there came the strange change which I had noticed in the night.
	narrator	Her breathing grew stertorous, the mouth opened, and the pale gums, drawn back, made the teeth look longer and sharper than ever.
	narrator	In a sort of sleep-waking, vague, unconscious way she opened her eyes, which were now dull and hard at once
	narrator	and said in a soft, voluptuous voice, such as I had never heard from her lips:
	lucy westenra	Arthur! Oh, my love, I am so glad you have come! Kiss me!
	narrator	Arthur bent eagerly over to kiss her; but at that instant Van Helsing, who, like me, had been startled by her voice
	narrator	swooped upon him, and catching him by the neck with both hands, dragged him back with a fury of strength which I never thought he could have possessed
	narrator	and actually hurled him almost across the room.
	van helsing	Not for your life! Not for your living soul and hers!
	narrator	And he stood between them like a lion at bay.
	narrator	Arthur was so taken aback that he did not for a moment know what to do or say; and before any impulse of violence could seize him he realised the place and the occasion
	narrator	and stood silent, waiting.
	narrator	I kept my eyes fixed on Lucy, as did Van Helsing, and we saw a spasm as of rage flit like a shadow over her face; the sharp teeth champed together.
	narrator	Then her eyes closed, and she breathed heavily.
	narrator	Very shortly after she opened her eyes in all their softness, and putting out her poor, pale
	narrator	thin hand, took Van Helsing's great brown one; drawing it to her, she kissed it.
	lucy westenra	My true friend, I am so glad you have come! My true friend, and his! Oh, guard him, and give me peace!
	van helsing	I swear it!
	narrator	he said solemnly, kneeling beside her and holding up his hand, as one who registers an oath.
	van helsing	Then he turned to Arthur, and said to him:
	van helsing	Come, my child, take her hand in yours, and kiss her on the forehead, and only once.
	narrator	Their eyes met instead of their lips; and so they parted.
	narrator	Lucy's eyes closed; and Van Helsing, who had been watching closely, took Arthur's arm, and drew him away.
	narrator	And then Lucy's breathing became stertorous again, and all at once it ceased.
	van helsing	It is all over. She is dead!
	narrator	I took Arthur by the arm, and led him away to the drawing-room, where he sat down
	narrator	and covered his face with his hands, sobbing in a way that nearly broke me down to see.
	narrator	I went back to the room, and found Van Helsing looking at poor Lucy, and his face was sterner than ever.
	narrator	Some change had come over her body.
	narrator	Death had given back part of her beauty, for her brow and cheeks had recovered some of their flowing lines; even the lips had lost their deadly pallor.
	narrator	It was as if the blood, no longer needed for the working of the heart, had gone to make the harshness of death as little rude as might be.
	narrator	We thought her dying whilst she slept, And sleeping when she died.
	narrator	I stood beside Van Helsing, and said:
	narrator	Ah, well, poor girl, there is peace for her at last.
	narrator	It is the end!
	van helsing	Not so; alas! not so. It is only the beginning!
	narrator	When I asked him what he meant, he only shook his head and answered:
	van helsing	We can do nothing as yet. Wait and see.
