Jonathan Harker	male	A solicitor who is investigating the mysterious movements of Count Dracula. He keeps a detailed journal of his findings and travels to various locations in London to gather information about the Count's activities.
Thomas Snelling	male	A workman who assists Jonathan Harker in his investigation. He is described as being in a condition to remember nothing due to drinking beer, and serves as a source of information about the delivery of boxes from Carfax.
Smollet	male	A mate who works with Thomas Snelling. He is described as a decent, intelligent fellow and remembers details about the delivery of boxes from Carfax to various locations in London.
Mina Harker	female	Jonathan's wife who is kept in the dark about his investigations. She appears pale and tired, and shows signs of distress over not being included in the family's secret knowledge.
Dr. Seward	male	A physician who is treating Renfield and investigating the mysterious events. He keeps a diary of his observations and is part of the group working to stop Count Dracula.
Renfield	*male	A patient under Dr. Seward's care who exhibits strange behavior and moods that seem to correlate with the Count's activities. He has a complex relationship with life, flies, and souls.
Lord Godalming	male	A member of the group investigating Count Dracula. He is involved in planning their strategy and has a professional relationship with Jonathan Harker.
Quincey Morris	male	A member of the group investigating Count Dracula. He is concerned about how they will gain access to properties and has a practical approach to their mission.
Van Helsing	*male	An old Dutch doctor who is a key figure in the investigation. He has extensive knowledge of ancient medicine and supernatural matters, and helps coordinate their efforts against Count Dracula.
Sam Bloxam	*male	A workman who delivers boxes for Count Dracula. He is described as a fellow who gets drunk easily but provides information about the locations where boxes were delivered.
Bloxam	*male	A workman who delivers boxes for Count Dracula. He is described as a fellow who gets drunk easily but provides information about the locations where boxes were delivered.
Mitchell	*male	A representative of the house agency Mitchell, Sons & Candy who provides information about the sale of a property in Piccadilly to Count Dracula.
Count de Ville	*male	The foreign nobleman who purchased the house in Piccadilly. He is identified as Count Dracula, though his true identity is not revealed until later in the story.
