	narrator	CHAPTER VIII
	narrator	MINA MURRAY’S JOURNAL
	narrator	Same day, 11 o’clock p. m.--Oh, but I am tired!
	narrator	If it were not that I had made my diary a duty I should not open it to-night.
	narrator	We had a lovely walk.
	narrator	Lucy, after a while, was in gay spirits, owing, I think, to some dear cows who came nosing towards us in a field close to the lighthouse
	narrator	and frightened the wits out of us.
	narrator	I believe we forgot everything except, of course, personal fear, and it seemed to wipe the slate clean and give us a fresh start.
	narrator	We had a capital "severe tea" at Robin Hood's Bay in a sweet little old-fashioned inn, with a bow-window right over the seaweed-covered rocks of the strand.
	narrator	I believe we should have shocked the "New Woman" with our appetites.
	narrator	Men are more tolerant, bless them!
	narrator	Then we walked home with some, or rather many, stoppages to rest, and with our hearts full of a constant dread of wild bulls.
	narrator	Lucy was really tired, and we intended to creep off to bed as soon as we could.
	narrator	The young curate came in, however, and Mrs.
	narrator	Westenra asked him to stay for supper.
	narrator	Lucy and I had both a fight for it with the dusty miller; I know it was a hard fight on my part
	narrator	and I am quite heroic.
	narrator	I think that some day the bishops must get together and see about breeding up a new class of curates
	narrator	who don't take supper, no matter how they may be pressed to, and who will know when girls are tired.
	narrator	Lucy is asleep and breathing softly.
	narrator	She has more colour in her cheeks than usual, and looks, oh, so sweet.
	narrator	If Mr.
	narrator	Holmwood fell in love with her seeing her only in the drawing-room, I wonder what he would say if he saw her now.
	narrator	Some of the "New Women" writers will some day start an idea that men and women should be allowed to see each other asleep before proposing or accepting.
	narrator	But I suppose the New Woman won't condescend in future to accept; she will do the proposing herself.
	narrator	And a nice job she will make of it, too!
	narrator	There's some consolation in that.
	narrator	I am so happy to-night, because dear Lucy seems better.
	narrator	I really believe she has turned the corner, and that we are over her troubles with dreaming.
	narrator	I should be quite happy if I only knew if Jonathan....
	narrator	God bless and keep him.
	narrator	_11 August, 3 a. m._--Diary again.
	narrator	No sleep now, so I may as well write.
	narrator	I am too agitated to sleep.
	narrator	We have had such an adventure, such an agonising experience.
	narrator	I fell asleep as soon as I had closed my diary.
	narrator	Suddenly I became broad awake, and sat up, with a horrible sense of fear upon me, and of some feeling of emptiness around me.
	narrator	The room was dark, so I could not see Lucy's bed; I stole across and felt for her.
	narrator	The bed was empty.
	narrator	I lit a match and found that she was not in the room.
	narrator	The door was shut, but not locked, as I had left it.
	narrator	I feared to wake her mother, who has been more than usually ill lately, so threw on some clothes and got ready to look for her.
	narrator	As I was leaving the room it struck me that the clothes she wore might give me some clue to her dreaming intention.
	narrator	Dressing-gown would mean house; dress, outside.
	narrator	Dressing-gown and dress were both in their places.
	mina murray	Thank God," I said to myself, "she cannot be far, as she is only in her nightdress.
	narrator	I ran downstairs and looked in the sitting-room.
	narrator	Not there!
	narrator	Then I looked in all the other open rooms of the house, with an ever-growing fear chilling my heart.
	narrator	Finally I came to the hall door and found it open.
	narrator	It was not wide open, but the catch of the lock had not caught.
	narrator	The people of the house are careful to lock the door every night, so I feared that Lucy must have gone out as she was.
	narrator	There was no time to think of what might happen; a vague, overmastering fear obscured all details.
	narrator	I took a big, heavy shawl and ran out.
	narrator	The clock was striking one as I was in the Crescent, and there was not a soul in sight.
	narrator	I ran along the North Terrace, but could see no sign of the white figure which I expected.
	narrator	At the edge of the West Cliff above the pier I looked across the harbour to the East Cliff
	narrator	in the hope or fear--I don't know which--of seeing Lucy in our favourite seat.
	narrator	There was a bright full moon, with heavy black, driving clouds, which threw the whole scene into a fleeting diorama of light and shade as they sailed across.
	narrator	For a moment or two I could see nothing, as the shadow of a cloud obscured St.
	narrator	Mary's Church and all around it.
	narrator	Then as the cloud passed I could see the ruins of the abbey coming into view; and as the edge of a narrow band of light as sharp as a sword-cut moved along
	narrator	the church and the churchyard became gradually visible.
	narrator	Whatever my expectation was, it was not disappointed, for there, on our favourite seat, the silver light of the moon struck a half-reclining figure
	narrator	snowy white.
	narrator	The coming of the cloud was too quick for me to see much, for shadow shut down on light almost immediately; but it seemed to me as though something dark stood behind the seat where the white figure shone
	narrator	and bent over it.
	narrator	What it was, whether man or beast, I could not tell; I did not wait to catch another glance
	narrator	but flew down the steep steps to the pier and along by the fish-market to the bridge
	narrator	which was the only way to reach the East Cliff.
	narrator	The town seemed as dead, for not a soul did I see; I rejoiced that it was so
	narrator	for I wanted no witness of poor Lucy's condition.
	narrator	The time and distance seemed endless, and my knees trembled and my breath came laboured as I toiled up the endless steps to the abbey.
	narrator	I must have gone fast, and yet it seemed to me as if my feet were weighted with lead
	narrator	and as though every joint in my body were rusty.
	narrator	When I got almost to the top I could see the seat and the white figure, for I was now close enough to distinguish it even through the spells of shadow.
	narrator	There was undoubtedly something, long and black, bending over the half-reclining white figure.
	mina murray	I called in fright, "Lucy! Lucy!
	narrator	and something raised a head, and from where I was I could see a white face and red
	narrator	gleaming eyes.
	mina murray	Lucy did not answer, and I ran on to the entrance of the churchyard.
	narrator	As I entered, the church was between me and the seat, and for a minute or so I lost sight of her.
	narrator	When I came in view again the cloud had passed, and the moonlight struck so brilliantly that I could see Lucy half reclining with her head lying over the back of the seat.
	narrator	She was quite alone, and there was not a sign of any living thing about.
	narrator	When I bent over her I could see that she was still asleep.
	narrator	Her lips were parted, and she was breathing--not softly as usual with her, but in long, heavy gasps
	narrator	as though striving to get her lungs full at every breath.
	narrator	As I came close, she put up her hand in her sleep and pulled the collar of her nightdress close around her throat.
	narrator	Whilst she did so there came a little shudder through her, as though she felt the cold.
	narrator	I flung the warm shawl over her, and drew the edges tight round her neck, for I dreaded lest she should get some deadly chill from the night air
	narrator	unclad as she was.
	narrator	I feared to wake her all at once, so, in order to have my hands free that I might help her
	narrator	I fastened the shawl at her throat with a big safety-pin; but I must have been clumsy in my anxiety and pinched or pricked her with it
	narrator	for by-and-by, when her breathing became quieter, she put her hand to her throat again and moaned.
	narrator	When I had her carefully wrapped up I put my shoes on her feet and then began very gently to wake her.
	narrator	At first she did not respond; but gradually she became more and more uneasy in her sleep
	narrator	moaning and sighing occasionally.
	narrator	At last, as time was passing fast, and, for many other reasons, I wished to get her home at once
	narrator	I shook her more forcibly, till finally she opened her eyes and awoke.
	narrator	She did not seem surprised to see me, as, of course, she did not realise all at once where she was.
	narrator	Lucy always wakes prettily, and even at such a time, when her body must have been chilled with cold
	narrator	and her mind somewhat appalled at waking unclad in a churchyard at night, she did not lose her grace.
	narrator	She trembled a little, and clung to me; when I told her to come at once with me home she rose without a word
	narrator	with the obedience of a child.
	narrator	As we passed along, the gravel hurt my feet, and Lucy noticed me wince.
	narrator	She stopped and wanted to insist upon my taking my shoes; but I would not.
	narrator	However, when we got to the pathway outside the churchyard, where there was a puddle of water
	narrator	remaining from the storm, I daubed my feet with mud, using each foot in turn on the other
	narrator	so that as we went home, no one, in case we should meet any one, should notice my bare feet.
	narrator	Fortune favoured us, and we got home without meeting a soul.
	narrator	Once we saw a man, who seemed not quite sober, passing along a street in front of us; but we hid in a door till he had disappeared up an opening such as there are here
	narrator	steep little closes, or "wynds," as they call them in Scotland.
	narrator	My heart beat so loud all the time that sometimes I thought I should faint.
	narrator	I was filled with anxiety about Lucy, not only for her health, lest she should suffer from the exposure
	narrator	but for her reputation in case the story should get wind.
	narrator	When we got in, and had washed our feet, and had said a prayer of thankfulness together
	narrator	I tucked her into bed.
	narrator	Before falling asleep she asked--even implored--me not to say a word to any one, even her mother
	narrator	about her sleep-walking adventure.
	narrator	I hesitated at first to promise; but on thinking of the state of her mother's health, and how the knowledge of such a thing would fret her
	narrator	and thinking, too, of how such a story might become distorted--nay, infallibly would--in case it should leak out
	narrator	I thought it wiser to do so.
	narrator	I hope I did right.
	narrator	I have locked the door, and the key is tied to my wrist, so perhaps I shall not be again disturbed.
	narrator	Lucy is sleeping soundly; the reflex of the dawn is high and far over the sea....
	narrator	Same day, noon.--All goes well.
	narrator	Lucy slept till I woke her and seemed not to have even changed her side.
	narrator	The adventure of the night does not seem to have harmed her; on the contrary, it has benefited her
	narrator	for she looks better this morning than she has done for weeks.
	narrator	I was sorry to notice that my clumsiness with the safety-pin hurt her.
	narrator	Indeed, it might have been serious, for the skin of her throat was pierced.
	narrator	I must have pinched up a piece of loose skin and have transfixed it, for there are two little red points like pin-pricks
	narrator	and on the band of her nightdress was a drop of blood.
	narrator	When I apologised and was concerned about it, she laughed and petted me, and said she did not even feel it.
	narrator	Fortunately it cannot leave a scar, as it is so tiny.
	narrator	Same day, night.--We passed a happy day.
	narrator	The air was clear, and the sun bright, and there was a cool breeze.
	narrator	We took our lunch to Mulgrave Woods, Mrs.
	narrator	Westenra driving by the road and Lucy and I walking by the cliff-path and joining her at the gate.
	narrator	I felt a little sad myself, for I could not but feel how absolutely happy it would have been had Jonathan been with me.
	narrator	But there!
	narrator	I must only be patient.
	narrator	In the evening we strolled in the Casino Terrace, and heard some good music by Spohr and Mackenzie
	narrator	and went to bed early.
	narrator	Lucy seems more restful than she has been for some time, and fell asleep at once.
	narrator	I shall lock the door and secure the key the same as before, though I do not expect any trouble to-night.
	narrator	12 August.--My expectations were wrong, for twice during the night I was wakened by Lucy trying to get out.
	narrator	She seemed, even in her sleep, to be a little impatient at finding the door shut, and went back to bed under a sort of protest.
	narrator	I woke with the dawn, and heard the birds chirping outside of the window.
	narrator	Lucy woke, too, and, I was glad to see, was even better than on the previous morning.
	narrator	All her old gaiety of manner seemed to have come back, and she came and snuggled in beside me and told me all about Arthur.
	narrator	I told her how anxious I was about Jonathan, and then she tried to comfort me.
	narrator	Well, she succeeded somewhat, for, though sympathy can't alter facts, it can help to make them more bearable.
	narrator	_13 August.--Another quiet day, and to bed with the key on my wrist as before.
	narrator	Again I awoke in the night, and found Lucy sitting up in bed, still asleep, pointing to the window.
	narrator	I got up quietly, and pulling aside the blind, looked out.
	narrator	It was brilliant moonlight, and the soft effect of the light over the sea and sky--merged together in one great
	narrator	silent mystery--was beautiful beyond words.
	narrator	Between me and the moonlight flitted a great bat, coming and going in great whirling circles.
	narrator	Once or twice it came quite close, but was, I suppose, frightened at seeing me, and flitted away across the harbour towards the abbey.
	narrator	When I came back from the window Lucy had lain down again, and was sleeping peacefully.
	narrator	She did not stir again all night.
	narrator	_14 August.--On the East Cliff, reading and writing all day.
	narrator	Lucy seems to have become as much in love with the spot as I am, and it is hard to get her away from it when it is time to come home for lunch or tea or dinner.
	narrator	This afternoon she made a funny remark.
	narrator	We were coming home for dinner, and had come to the top of the steps up from the West Pier and stopped to look at the view
	narrator	as we generally do.
	narrator	The setting sun, low down in the sky, was just dropping behind Kettleness; the red light was thrown over on the East Cliff and the old abbey
	narrator	and seemed to bathe everything in a beautiful rosy glow.
	narrator	We were silent for a while, and suddenly Lucy murmured as if to herself:
	lucy westenra	His red eyes again! They are just the same.
	narrator	It was such an odd expression, coming apropos of nothing, that it quite startled me.
	narrator	I slewed round a little, so as to see Lucy well without seeming to stare at her
	narrator	and saw that she was in a half-dreamy state, with an odd look on her face that I could not quite make out; so I said nothing
	narrator	but followed her eyes.
	narrator	She appeared to be looking over at our own seat, whereon was a dark figure seated alone.
	narrator	I was a little startled myself, for it seemed for an instant as if the stranger had great eyes like burning flames; but a second look dispelled the illusion.
	narrator	The red sunlight was shining on the windows of St.
	narrator	Mary's Church behind our seat, and as the sun dipped there was just sufficient change in the refraction and reflection to make it appear as if the light moved.
	narrator	I called Lucy's attention to the peculiar effect, and she became herself with a start, but she looked sad all the same; it may have been that she was thinking of that terrible night up there.
	narrator	We never refer to it; so I said nothing, and we went home to dinner.
	narrator	Lucy had a headache and went early to bed.
	narrator	I saw her asleep, and went out for a little stroll myself; I walked along the cliffs to the westward
	narrator	and was full of sweet sadness, for I was thinking of Jonathan.
	narrator	When coming home--it was then bright moonlight, so bright that, though the front of our part of the Crescent was in shadow
	narrator	everything could be well seen--I threw a glance up at our window, and saw Lucy's head leaning out.
	narrator	I thought that perhaps she was looking out for me, so I opened my handkerchief and waved it.
	narrator	She did not notice or make any movement whatever.
	narrator	Just then, the moonlight crept round an angle of the building, and the light fell on the window.
	narrator	There distinctly was Lucy with her head lying up against the side of the window-sill and her eyes shut.
	narrator	She was fast asleep, and by her, seated on the window-sill, was something that looked like a good-sized bird.
	narrator	I was afraid she might get a chill, so I ran upstairs, but as I came into the room she was moving back to her bed
	narrator	fast asleep, and breathing heavily; she was holding her hand to her throat, as though to protect it from cold.
	narrator	I did not wake her, but tucked her up warmly; I have taken care that the door is locked and the window securely fastened.
	narrator	She looks so sweet as she sleeps; but she is paler than is her wont, and there is a drawn
	narrator	haggard look under her eyes which I do not like.
	narrator	I fear she is fretting about something.
	narrator	I wish I could find out what it is.
	narrator	_15 August.--Rose later than usual.
	narrator	Lucy was languid and tired, and slept on after we had been called.
	narrator	We had a happy surprise at breakfast.
	narrator	Arthur's father is better, and wants the marriage to come off soon.
	narrator	Lucy is full of quiet joy, and her mother is glad and sorry at once.
	narrator	Later on in the day she told me the cause.
	narrator	She is grieved to lose Lucy as her very own, but she is rejoiced that she is soon to have some one to protect her.
	narrator	Poor dear, sweet lady!
	narrator	She confided to me that she has got her death-warrant.
	narrator	She has not told Lucy, and made me promise secrecy; her doctor told her that within a few months
	narrator	at most, she must die, for her heart is weakening.
	narrator	At any time, even now, a sudden shock would be almost sure to kill her.
	narrator	Ah, we were wise to keep from her the affair of the dreadful night of Lucy's sleep-walking.
	narrator	_17 August._--No diary for two whole days.
	narrator	I have not had the heart to write.
	narrator	Some sort of shadowy pall seems to be coming over our happiness.
	narrator	No news from Jonathan, and Lucy seems to be growing weaker, whilst her mother's hours are numbering to a close.
	narrator	I do not understand Lucy's fading away as she is doing.
	narrator	She eats well and sleeps well, and enjoys the fresh air; but all the time the roses in her cheeks are fading
	narrator	and she gets weaker and more languid day by day; at night I hear her gasping as if for air.
	narrator	I keep the key of our door always fastened to my wrist at night, but she gets up and walks about the room
	narrator	and sits at the open window.
	narrator	Last night I found her leaning out when I woke up, and when I tried to wake her I could not; she was in a faint.
	narrator	When I managed to restore her she was as weak as water, and cried silently between long
	narrator	painful struggles for breath.
	narrator	When I asked her how she came to be at the window she shook her head and turned away.
	narrator	I trust her feeling ill may not be from that unlucky prick of the safety-pin.
	narrator	I looked at her throat just now as she lay asleep, and the tiny wounds seem not to have healed.
	narrator	They are still open, and, if anything, larger than before, and the edges of them are faintly white.
	narrator	They are like little white dots with red centres.
	narrator	Unless they heal within a day or two, I shall insist on the doctor seeing about them.
	narrator	Letter, Samuel F.
	narrator	Billington & Son, Solicitors, Whitby, to Messrs.
	narrator	Carter, Paterson & Co., London.
	narrator	_17 August._
	narrator	Dear Sirs,--
	narrator	Herewith please receive invoice of goods sent by Great Northern Railway.
	narrator	Same are to be delivered at Carfax, near Purfleet, immediately on receipt at goods station King's Cross.
	narrator	The house is at present empty, but enclosed please find keys, all of which are labelled.
	narrator	You will please deposit the boxes, fifty in number, which form the consignment, in the partially ruined building forming part of the house and marked 'A' on rough diagram enclosed.
	narrator	Your agent will easily recognise the locality, as it is the ancient chapel of the mansion.
	narrator	The goods leave by the train at 9:30 to-night, and will be due at King's Cross at 4:30 to-morrow afternoon.
	narrator	As our client wishes the delivery made as soon as possible, we shall be obliged by your having teams ready at King's Cross at the time named and forthwith conveying the goods to destination.
	narrator	In order to obviate any delays possible through any routine requirements as to payment in your departments
	narrator	we enclose cheque herewith for ten pounds (£10), receipt of which please acknowledge.
	narrator	Should the charge be less than this amount, you can return balance; if greater, we shall at once send cheque for difference on hearing from you.
	narrator	You are to leave the keys on coming away in the main hall of the house, where the proprietor may get them on his entering the house by means of his duplicate key.
	narrator	- Mina Murray (female): The narrator of the journal entries, a young woman who is deeply caring and devoted to her friend Lucy Westenra.
	narrator	She is practical, observant, and shows great concern for others' wellbeing.
	narrator	- Lucy Westenra (female): A young woman who is the focus of much care and attention in the story.
	narrator	She experiences sleepwalking episodes, appears to be developing a mysterious illness, and is engaged to Arthur Holmwood.
	narrator	- Arthur Holmwood (*male): Lucy's fiancé, who is mentioned as being very important to Lucy and whose father is reportedly better.
	narrator	He is described by Lucy as someone she loves.
	narrator	- Mrs.
	narrator	Westenra (female): Lucy's mother, who is described as being ill and whose health is a concern for Mina.
	narrator	She has been told she will die within months.
	narrator	- Jonathan Harker (*male): Mina's fiancé who has been ill in Budapest and is recovering.
	narrator	He was traveling to his home country when he became seriously unwell.
	narrator	- Sister Agatha (female): A nun at the hospital in Budapest where Jonathan Harker was being treated.
	narrator	She writes a letter to Mina about his condition and recovery.
	narrator	- Dr.
	narrator	Seward (*male): A physician who keeps a diary and is involved in treating patients at an asylum.
	narrator	He has particular interest in Renfield.
	narrator	- Renfield (*male): A patient at the asylum who exhibits strange behavior and religious mania.
	narrator	He becomes dangerous when he escapes.
	narrator	- Peter Hawkins (*male): A man who is mentioned in a letter from Jonathan Harker to Mina.
	narrator	He appears to be involved with the care of Jonathan.
	narrator	- Mr.
	narrator	Swales (*male): A character mentioned by Lucy in a playful reference to her sleepwalking experience.
	narrator	He is described as an old man who would have told Lucy about the sound of her feet.
	narrator	- Geordie (*male): A character mentioned by Lucy in a playful reference to her sleepwalking experience.
	narrator	He is described as someone who would have been woken by Lucy's footsteps.
	narrator	PASSAGE:
	narrator	“Pray do not take us as exceeding the bounds of business courtesy in pressing you in all ways to use the utmost expedition.
	narrator	_“We are, dear Sirs,
	narrator	“Faithfully yours,
	narrator	“SAMUEL F. BILLINGTON & SON.”_
	narrator	_Letter, Messrs.
	narrator	Carter, Paterson & Co., London, to Messrs.
	narrator	Billington & Son, Whitby._
	narrator	“_21 August._
	narrator	“Dear Sirs,--
	narrator	“We beg to acknowledge £10 received and to return cheque £1 17s. 9d, amount of overplus, as shown in receipted account herewith. Goods are delivered in exact accordance with instructions
	narrator	and keys left in parcel in main hall, as directed.
	narrator	“We are, dear Sirs,
	narrator	“Yours respectfully.
	narrator	“_Pro_ CARTER, PATERSON & CO.”
	narrator	_Mina Murray’s Journal._
	narrator	_18 August._--I am happy to-day, and write sitting on the seat in the churchyard.
	narrator	Lucy is ever so much better.
	narrator	Last night she slept well all night, and did not disturb me once.
	narrator	The roses seem coming back already to her cheeks, though she is still sadly pale and wan-looking.
	narrator	If she were in any way anæmic I could understand it, but she is not.
	narrator	She is in gay spirits and full of life and cheerfulness.
	narrator	All the morbid reticence seems to have passed from her, and she has just reminded me, as if I needed any reminding
	narrator	of _that_ night, and that it was here, on this very seat, I found her asleep.
	narrator	As she told me she tapped playfully with the heel of her boot on the stone slab and said:
	lucy westenra	My poor little feet didn’t make much noise then! I daresay poor old Mr. Swales would have told me that it was because I didn’t want to wake up Geordie.
	narrator	As she was in such a communicative humour, I asked her if she had dreamed at all that night.
	narrator	Before she answered, that sweet, puckered look came into her forehead, which Arthur--I call him Arthur from her habit--says he loves; and
	narrator	indeed, I don’t wonder that he does.
	narrator	Then she went on in a half-dreaming kind of way, as if trying to recall it to herself:
	narrator	I didn’t quite dream; but it all seemed to be real.
	narrator	I only wanted to be here in this spot--I don’t know why, for I was afraid of something--I don't know what.
	narrator	I remember, though I suppose I was asleep, passing through the streets and over the bridge.
	narrator	A fish leaped as I went by, and I leaned over to look at it, and I heard a lot of dogs howling--the whole town seemed as if it must be full of dogs all howling at once--as I went up the steps.
	narrator	Then I had a vague memory of something long and dark with red eyes, just as we saw in the sunset
	narrator	and something very sweet and very bitter all around me at once; and then I seemed sinking into deep green water
	narrator	and there was a singing in my ears, as I have heard there is to drowning men; and then everything seemed passing away from me; my soul seemed to go out from my body and float about the air.
	narrator	I seem to remember that once the West Lighthouse was right under me, and then there was a sort of agonising feeling
	narrator	as if I were in an earthquake, and I came back and found you shaking my body.
	narrator	I saw you do it before I felt you.
	narrator	Then she began to laugh.
	narrator	It seemed a little uncanny to me, and I listened to her breathlessly.
	narrator	I did not quite like it, and thought it better not to keep her mind on the subject
	narrator	so we drifted on to other subjects, and Lucy was like her old self again.
	narrator	When we got home the fresh breeze had braced her up, and her pale cheeks were really more rosy.
	narrator	Her mother rejoiced when she saw her, and we all spent a very happy evening together.
	narrator	19 August.--Joy, joy, joy!
	narrator	Although not all joy.
	narrator	At last, news of Jonathan.
	narrator	The dear fellow has been ill; that is why he did not write.
	narrator	I am not afraid to think it or say it, now that I know.
	narrator	Mr.
	narrator	Hawkins sent me on the letter, and wrote himself, oh, so kindly.
	narrator	I am to leave in the morning and go over to Jonathan, and to help to nurse him if necessary
	narrator	and to bring him home.
	narrator	Mr.
	narrator	Hawkins says it would not be a bad thing if we were to be married out there.
	narrator	I have cried over the good Sister's letter till I can feel it wet against my bosom
	narrator	where it lies.
	narrator	It is of Jonathan, and must be next my heart, for he is _in_ my heart.
	narrator	My journey is all mapped out, and my luggage ready.
	narrator	I am only taking one change of dress; Lucy will bring my trunk to London and keep it till I send for it
	narrator	for it may be that ...
	narrator	I must write no more; I must keep it to say to Jonathan, my husband.
	narrator	The letter that he has seen and touched must comfort me till we meet.
	narrator	Letter, Sister Agatha, Hospital of St.
	narrator	Joseph and Ste.
	narrator	Mary, Buda-Pesth, to Miss Wilhelmina Murray.
	narrator	12 August.--Dear Madam,--
	narrator	I write by desire of Mr.
	narrator	Jonathan Harker, who is himself not strong enough to write, though progressing well, thanks to God and St.
	narrator	Joseph and Ste.
	narrator	Mary.
	narrator	He has been under our care for nearly six weeks, suffering from a violent brain fever.
	narrator	He wishes me to convey his love, and to say that by this post I write for him to Mr.
	narrator	Peter Hawkins, Exeter, to say, with his dutiful respects, that he is sorry for his delay, and that all of his work is completed.
	narrator	He will require some few weeks' rest in our sanatorium in the hills, but will then return.
	narrator	He wishes me to say that he has not sufficient money with him, and that he would like to pay for his staying here
	narrator	so that others who need shall not be wanting for help.
	narrator	Believe me, Yours, with sympathy and all blessings, Sister Agatha.
	narrator	P.
	narrator	S.--My patient being asleep, I open this to let you know something more.
	narrator	He has told me all about you, and that you are shortly to be his wife.
	narrator	All blessings to you both!
	narrator	He has had some fearful shock--so says our doctor--and in his delirium his ravings have been dreadful; of wolves and poison and blood; of ghosts and demons; and I fear to say of what.
	narrator	Be careful with him always that there may be nothing to excite him of this kind for a long time to come; the traces of such an illness as his do not lightly die away.
	narrator	We should have written long ago, but we knew nothing of his friends, and there was on him nothing that any one could understand.
	narrator	He came in the train from Klausenburg, and the guard was told by the station-master there that he rushed into the station shouting for a ticket for home.
	narrator	Seeing from his violent demeanour that he was English, they gave him a ticket for the furthest station on the way thither that the train reached.
	narrator	Be assured that he is well cared for.
	narrator	He has won all hearts by his sweetness and gentleness.
	narrator	He is truly getting on well, and I have no doubt will in a few weeks be all himself.
	narrator	But be careful of him for safety's sake.
	narrator	There are, I pray God and St.
	narrator	Joseph and Ste.
	narrator	Mary, many, many, happy years for you both.
	narrator	Dr.
	narrator	Seward's Diary.
	narrator	19 August.--Strange and sudden change in Renfield last night.
	narrator	About eight o'clock he began to get excited and sniff about as a dog does when setting.
	narrator	The attendant was struck by his manner, and knowing my interest in him, encouraged him to talk.
	narrator	He is usually respectful to the attendant and at times servile; but to-night, the man tells me
	narrator	he was quite haughty.
	narrator	Would not condescend to talk with him at all.
	narrator	All he would say was:
	renfield	I don't want to talk to you: you don't count now; the Master is at hand.
	narrator	The attendant thinks it is some sudden form of religious mania which has seized him.
	narrator	If so, we must look out for squalls, for a strong man with homicidal and religious mania at once might be dangerous.
	narrator	The combination is a dreadful one.
	narrator	At nine o'clock I visited him myself.
	narrator	His attitude to me was the same as that to the attendant; in his sublime self-feeling the difference between myself and attendant seemed to him as nothing.
	narrator	It looks like religious mania, and he will soon think that he himself is God.
	narrator	These infinitesimal distinctions between man and man are too paltry for an Omnipotent Being.
	narrator	How these madmen give themselves away!
	narrator	The real God taketh heed lest a sparrow fall; but the God created from human vanity sees no difference between an eagle and a sparrow.
	narrator	Oh, if men only knew!
	narrator	For half an hour or more Renfield kept getting excited in greater and greater degree.
	narrator	I did not pretend to be watching him, but I kept strict observation all the same.
	narrator	All at once that shifty look came into his eyes which we always see when a madman has seized an idea
	narrator	and with it the shifty movement of the head and back which asylum attendants come to know so well.
	narrator	He became quite quiet, and went and sat on the edge of his bed resignedly, and looked into space with lack-lustre eyes.
	narrator	I thought I would find out if his apathy were real or only assumed, and tried to lead him to talk of his pets
	narrator	a theme which had never failed to excite his attention.
	narrator	At first he made no reply, but at length said testily:
	renfield	Bother them all! I don't care a pin about them.
	narrator	What?
	narrator	I said.
	narrator	You don't mean to tell me you don't care about spiders?
	narrator	The bride-maidens rejoice the eyes that wait the coming of the bride; but when the bride draweth nigh
	narrator	then the maidens shine not to the eyes that are filled.
	narrator	He would not explain himself, but remained obstinately seated on his bed all the time I remained with him.
	narrator	I am weary to-night and low in spirits.
	narrator	I cannot but think of Lucy, and how different things might have been.
	narrator	If I don't sleep at once, chloral, the modern Morpheus--C_{2}HCl_{3}O.
	narrator	H_{2}O!
	narrator	I must be careful not to let it grow into a habit.
	narrator	No, I shall take none to-night!
	narrator	I have thought of Lucy, and I shall not dishonour her by mixing the two.
	narrator	If need be, to-night shall be sleepless....
	narrator	Later.--Glad I made the resolution; gladder that I kept to it.
	narrator	I had lain tossing about, and had heard the clock strike only twice, when the night-watchman came to me
	narrator	sent up from the ward, to say that Renfield had escaped.
	narrator	I threw on my clothes and ran down at once; my patient is too dangerous a person to be roaming about.
	narrator	Those ideas of his might work out dangerously with strangers.
	narrator	The attendant was waiting for me.
	narrator	He said he had seen him not ten minutes before, seemingly asleep in his bed, when he had looked through the observation-trap in the door.
	narrator	His attention was called by the sound of the window being wrenched out.
	narrator	He ran back and saw his feet disappear through the window, and had at once sent up for me.
	narrator	He was only in his night-gear, and cannot be far off.
	narrator	The attendant thought it would be more useful to watch where he should go than to follow him
	narrator	as he might lose sight of him whilst getting out of the building by the door.
	narrator	He is a bulky man, and couldn't get through the window.
	narrator	I am thin, so, with his aid, I got out, but feet foremost, and, as we were only a few feet above ground
	narrator	landed unhurt.
	narrator	The attendant told me the patient had gone to the left, and had taken a straight line
	narrator	so I ran as quickly as I could.
	narrator	As I got through the belt of trees I saw a white figure scale the high wall which separates our grounds from those of the deserted house.
	narrator	I ran back at once, told the watchman to get three or four men immediately and follow me into the grounds of Carfax
	narrator	in case our friend might be dangerous.
	narrator	I got a ladder myself, and crossing the wall, dropped down on the other side.
	narrator	I could see Renfield's figure just disappearing behind the angle of the house, so I ran after him.
	narrator	On the far side of the house I found him pressed close against the old ironbound oak door of the chapel.
	narrator	He was talking, apparently to some one, but I was afraid to go near enough to hear what he was saying
	narrator	lest I might frighten him, and he should run off.
	narrator	Chasing an errant swarm of bees is nothing to following a naked lunatic, when the fit of escaping is upon him!
	narrator	After a few minutes, however, I could see that he did not take note of anything around him
	narrator	and so ventured to draw nearer to him--the more so as my men had now crossed the wall and were closing him in.
	narrator	I heard him say:
	renfield	I am here to do Your bidding, Master. I am Your slave, and You will reward me, for I shall be faithful. I have worshipped You long and afar off. Now that You are near, I await Your commands, and You will not pass me by, will You, dear Master, in Your distribution of good things?
	narrator	He is a selfish old beggar anyhow.
	narrator	He thinks of the loaves and fishes even when he believes he is in a Real Presence.
	narrator	His manias make a startling combination.
	narrator	When we closed in on him he fought like a tiger.
	narrator	He is immensely strong, for he was more like a wild beast than a man.
	narrator	I never saw a lunatic in such a paroxysm of rage before; and I hope I shall not again.
	narrator	It is a mercy that we have found out his strength and his danger in good time.
	narrator	With strength and determination like his, he might have done wild work before he was caged.
	narrator	He is safe now at any rate.
	narrator	Jack Sheppard himself couldn't get free from the strait-waistcoat that keeps him restrained, and he's chained to the wall in the padded room.
	narrator	His cries are at times awful, but the silences that follow are more deadly still, for he means murder in every turn and movement.
	narrator	Just now he spoke coherent words for the first time:
	renfield	I shall be patient, Master. It is coming--coming--coming!
	narrator	So I took the hint, and came too.
	narrator	I was too excited to sleep, but this diary has quieted me, and I feel I shall get some sleep to-night.
