	narrator	CHAPTER XXIV. Next day, towards night, we laid up under a little willow tow-head out in the middle,
	narrator	where there was a village on each side of the river, and the duke and the king begun to lay out a plan for working them towns.
	jim	I hope it won't take but a few hours, because it got mighty heavy and tiresome to him when he had to lay all day in the wigwam tied with the rope.
	narrator	You see, when we left him all alone we had to tie him, because if anybody happened on to him all by himself and not tied it wouldn't look much like he was a runaway nigger,
	narrator	you know.
	the duke	It _was_ kind of hard to have to lay roped all day, and he'd cipher out some way to get around it.
	narrator	He was uncommon bright, the duke was, and he soon struck it.
	the duke	He dressed Jim up in King Lear's outfit—it was a long curtain-calico gown, and a white horse-hair wig and whiskers; and then he took his theater paint and painted Jim's face and hands and ears and neck all over a dead,
	the duke	dull, solid blue, like a man that's been drownded nine days.
	narrator	Blamed if he warn't the horriblest looking outrage I ever see.
	the duke	Then the duke took and wrote out a sign on a shingle so:
	narrator	_Sick Arab—but harmless when not out of his head._
	the duke	And he nailed that shingle to a lath, and stood the lath up four or five foot in front of the wigwam.
	jim	I'm satisfied. I said it was a sight better than lying tied a couple of years every day,
	jim	and trembling all over every time there was a sound.
	the duke	The duke told him to make himself free and easy, and if anybody ever come meddling around,
	the duke	he must hop out of the wigwam, and carry on a little, and fetch a howl or two like a wild beast,
	the duke	and he reckoned they would light out and leave him alone. Which was sound enough judgment; but you take the average man,
	the duke	and he wouldn't wait for him to howl.
	narrator	Why, he didn't only look like he was dead, he looked considerably more than that. These rapscallions wanted to try the Nonesuch again,
	narrator	because there was so much money in it, but they judged it wouldn't be safe, because maybe the news might a worked along down by this time.
	narrator	They couldn't hit no project that suited exactly; so at last the duke said he reckoned he'd lay off and work his brains an hour or two and see if he couldn't put up something on the Arkansaw village; and the king he allowed he would drop over to t'other
	narrator	village without any plan, but just trust in Providence to lead him the profitable way—meaning the devil,
	narrator	I reckon. We had all bought store clothes where we stopped last; and now the king put his'n on,
	narrator	and he told me to put mine on. I done it, of course. The king's duds was all black,
	narrator	and he did look real swell and starchy. I never knowed how clothes could change a body before.
	narrator	Why, before, he looked like the orneriest old rip that ever was; but now, when he'd take off his new white beaver and make a bow and do a smile,
	narrator	he looked that grand and good and pious that you'd say he had walked right out of the ark,
	narrator	and maybe was old Leviticus himself. Jim cleaned up the canoe, and I got my paddle ready.
	narrator	There was a big steamboat laying at the shore away up under the point, about three mile above the town—been there a couple of hours,
	narrator	taking on freight.
	the king	Says the king:
	narrator	Seein’ how I’m dressed, I reckon maybe I better arrive down from St. Louis or Cincinnati,
	narrator	or some other big place. Go for the steamboat, Huckleberry; we’ll come down to the village on her.
	huckleberry	I didn’t have to be ordered twice to go and take a steamboat ride.
	narrator	I fetched the shore a half a mile above the village, and then went scooting along the bluff bank in the easy water.
	narrator	Pretty soon we come to a nice innocent-looking young country jake setting on a log swabbing the sweat off of his face,
	narrator	for it was powerful warm weather; and he had a couple of big carpet-bags by him.
	the king	Run her nose in shore,
	huckleberry	I done it.
	the king	Wher’ you bound for, young man?
	adolphus	For the steamboat; going to Orleans.
	the king	Git aboard, Hold on a minute, my servant ’ll he’p you with them bags. Jump out and he’p the gentleman,
	the king	Adolphus”—meaning me, I see.
	narrator	I done so, and then we all three started on again. The young chap was mighty thankful; said it was tough work toting his baggage such weather.
	adolphus	He asked the king where he was going, and the king told him he'd come down the river and landed at the other village this morning,
	adolphus	and now he was going up a few mile to see an old friend on a farm up there.
	narrator	The young fellow says: When I first see you I says to myself, 'It's Mr. Wilks,
	narrator	sure, and he come mighty near getting here in time.' But then I says again, 'No,
	narrator	I reckon it ain't him, or else he wouldn't be paddling up the river.' You _ain't_ him,
	narrator	are you?
	the king	No, my name’s Blodgett—Elexander Blodgett—_Reverend_ Elexander Blodgett, I s'pose I must say, as I'm one o'
	the king	the Lord's poor servants. But still I'm jist as able to be sorry for Mr. Wilks for not arriving in time,
	the king	all the same, if he's missed anything by it—which I hope he hasn't.
	narrator	Well, he don't miss any property by it, because he'll get that all right; but he's missed seeing his brother Peter die—which he mayn't mind,
	narrator	nobody can tell as to that—but his brother would a give anything in this world to see _him_ before he died; never talked about nothing else all these three weeks; hadn't seen him since they was boys together—and hadn't ever seen his brother William at all—that's the deef and dumb
	narrator	one—William ain't more than thirty or thirty-five. Peter and George were the only ones that come out here; George was the married brother; him and his wife both died last year.
	narrator	Harvey and William's the only ones that's left now; and, as I was saying, they haven't got here in time.
	the king	Did anybody send 'em word?
	narrator	- The Duke (*male): A con artist and fraud who works with the King. He is clever and resourceful,
	narrator	dressing Jim up as a sick Arab to avoid being tied up all day. He pretends to be from England and plays the role of a deaf and dumb person.
	narrator	- The King (*male): A con artist and fraud who works with the Duke. He pretends to be Reverend Elexander Blodgett from England and is skilled at playing the role of a grieving relative.
	narrator	He speaks with an English accent. - Jim (*male): A runaway slave who is dressed up as a sick Arab by the Duke.
	narrator	He wears King Lear's outfit, white horse-hair wig and whiskers, and is painted blue to look like he has been drowned.
	narrator	He is tired of being tied up all day. - Huckleberry (*male): The narrator of the story,
	narrator	a young boy who helps the Duke and King with their schemes. He is tasked with paddling the canoe and assisting with their plans.
	narrator	- Adolphus (*male): A young man who is mistaken for Mr. Wilks by the King and Duke.
	narrator	He is traveling to Orleans on a ship bound for Rio Janeiro, and has a red-headed sister named Mary Jane.
	narrator	- Peter Wilks (*male): A deceased tanner who was the brother of Harvey and George Wilks.
	narrator	He died the night before, and his funeral is scheduled for the next day. - Harvey Wilks (*male): The brother of Peter and George Wilks who lives in England (Sheffield) as a dissentering minister.
	narrator	He was expected to visit his dying brother but did not arrive in time. - George Wilks (*male): The married brother of Peter and Harvey Wilks who died along with his wife the previous year.
	narrator	- William Wilks (*male): The deaf and dumb brother of Peter and Harvey Wilks, who is mentioned as being about thirty or thirty-five years old.
	narrator	- Mary Jane (*female): The red-headed daughter of George Wilks who is mentioned as being nineteen years old.
	narrator	- Susan (*female): One of the daughters of George Wilks who is mentioned as being fifteen years old.
	narrator	- Joanna (*female): The youngest daughter of George Wilks who is about fourteen years old and has a hare-lip.
	narrator	- Hobson (*male): The Baptist preacher who was a close friend of Peter Wilks. - Deacon Lot Hovey (*male): A friend of Peter Wilks who is mentioned as being one of the people who will help care for the Wilks sisters.
	narrator	- Ben Rucker (*male): A friend of Peter Wilks who is mentioned as being one of the people who will help care for the Wilks sisters.
	narrator	- Abner Shackleford (*male): A friend of Peter Wilks who is mentioned as being one of the people who will help care for the Wilks sisters.
	narrator	- Levi Bell (*male): The lawyer who was a close friend of Peter Wilks and will help with the inheritance.
	narrator	- Dr. Robinson (*male): A friend of Peter Wilks who is mentioned as being one of the people who will help care for the Wilks sisters.
	narrator	- Widow Bartley (*female): A friend of Peter Wilks who is mentioned as being one of the people who will help care for the Wilks sisters.
	narrator	PASSAGE: "Oh, yes; a month or two ago, when Peter was first taken; because Peter said then that he sorter felt like he warn’t going to get well this time.
	narrator	You see, he was pretty old, and George’s g’yirls was too young to be much company for him,
	narrator	except Mary Jane, the red-headed one; and so he was kinder lonesome after George and his wife died,
	narrator	and didn't seem to care much to live. He most desperately wanted to see Harvey—and William,
	narrator	too, for that matter—because he was one of them kind that can't bear to make a will.
	narrator	He left a letter behind for Harvey, and said he'd told in it where his money was hid,
	narrator	and how he wanted the rest of the property divided up so George's g'yirls would be all right—for George didn't leave nothing.
	narrator	And that letter was all they could get him to put a pen to." "Why do you reckon Harvey don't come?
	narrator	Wher' does he live?" "Oh, he lives in England—Sheffield—preaches there—hasn't ever been in this country. He hasn't had any too much time—and besides he mightn't a got the letter at all,
	narrator	you know." "Too bad, too bad he couldn't a lived to see his brothers, poor soul.
	narrator	You going to Orleans, you say?" "Yes, but that ain't only a part of it. I'm going in a ship,
	narrator	next Wednesday, for Ryo Janeero, where my uncle lives." "It's a pretty long journey. But it'll be lovely; wisht I was a-going.
	narrator	Is Mary Jane the oldest? How old is the others?" "Mary Jane's nineteen, Susan's fifteen, and Joanna's about fourteen—that's the one that gives herself to good works and has a hare-lip."
	narrator	"Poor things! to be left alone in the cold world so." "Well, they could be worse off.
	narrator	Old Peter had friends, and they ain't going to let them come to no harm. There's Hobson,
	narrator	the Babtis' preacher; and Deacon Lot Hovey, and Ben Rucker, and Abner Shackleford, and Levi Bell,
	narrator	the lawyer; and Dr. Robinson, and their wives, and the widow Bartley, and—well, there's a lot of them; but these are the ones that Peter was thickest with,
	narrator	and used to write about sometimes, when he wrote home; so Harvey'll know where to look for friends when he gets here."
	narrator	Well, the old man went on asking questions till he just fairly emptied that young fellow.
	narrator	Blamed if he didn't inquire about everybody and everything in that blessed town, and all about the Wilkses; and about Peter's business—which was a tanner; and about George's—which was a carpenter; and about Harvey's—which was a dissentering minister; and so on,
	narrator	and so on. Then he says: "What did you want to walk all the way up to the steamboat for?"
	narrator	"Because she's a big Orleans boat, and I was afeard she mightn't stop there. When they're deep they won't stop for a hail.
	narrator	A Cincinnati boat will, but this is a St. Louis one." "Was Peter Wilks well off?"
	narrator	"Oh, yes, pretty well off. He had houses and land, and it's reckoned he left three or four thousand in cash hid up som'ers."
	narrator	"When did you say he died?" "I didn't say, but it was last night." "Funeral to-morrow,
	narrator	likely?" "Yes, 'bout the middle of the day." "Well, it's all terrible sad; but we've all got to go,
	narrator	one time or another. So what we want to do is to be prepared; then we're all right."
	narrator	"Yes, sir, it's the best way. Ma used to always say that." When we struck the boat she was about done loading,
	narrator	and pretty soon she got off. The king never said nothing about going aboard, so I lost my ride,
	narrator	after all. When the boat was gone the king made me paddle up another mile to a lonesome place,
	narrator	and then he got ashore and says:
	the king	Now hustle back, right off, and fetch the duke up here, and the new carpet-bags. And if he's gone over to t'other side,
	the king	go over there and git him. And tell him to git himself up regardless. Shove along,
	the king	now.
	narrator	I see what he was up to; but I never said nothing, of course. When I got back with the duke we hid the canoe,
	narrator	and then they set down on a log, and the king told him everything, just like the young fellow had said it—every last word of it.
	narrator	And all the time he was a-doing it he tried to talk like an Englishman; and he done it pretty well,
	narrator	too, for a slouch. I can't imitate him, and so I ain't a-going to try to; but he really done it pretty good.
	narrator	Then he says:
	the king	How are you on the deef and dumb, Bilgewater?
	the duke	Leave him alone for that; said he had played a deef and dumb person on the histronic boards.
	narrator	So then they waited for a steamboat. About the middle of the afternoon a couple of little boats come along,
	narrator	but they didn't come from high enough up the river; but at last there was a big one,
	narrator	and they hailed her. She sent out her yawl, and we went aboard, and she was from Cincinnati; and when they found we only wanted to go four or five mile they was booming mad,
	narrator	and gave us a cussing, and said they wouldn't land us. But the king was ca'm.
	the king	If gentlemen kin afford to pay a dollar a mile apiece to be took on and put off in a yawl,
	the king	a steamboat kin afford to carry 'em, can't it?
	narrator	So they softened down and said it was all right; and when we got to the village they yawled us ashore.
	narrator	About two dozen men flocked down when they see the yawl a-coming, and when the king says:
	the king	Kin any of you gentlemen tell me wher' Mr. Peter Wilks lives?
	narrator	they give a glance at one another, and nodded their heads, as much as to say,
	narrator	"What d' I tell you?" Then one of them says, kind of soft and gentle: "I'm sorry sir,
	narrator	but the best we can do is to tell you where he _did_ live yesterday evening."
	narrator	Sudden as winking the ornery old cretur went all to smash, and fell up against the man,
	narrator	and put his chin on his shoulder, and cried down his back, and says:
	the king	Alas, alas, our poor brother—gone, and we never got to see him; oh, it's too, _too_ hard!
	narrator	Then he turns around, blubbering, and makes a lot of idiotic signs to the duke on his hands,
	narrator	and blamed if he didn't drop a carpet-bag and bust out a-crying. If they warn't the beatenest lot,
	narrator	them two frauds, that ever I struck. Well, the men gathered around and sympathized with them,
	narrator	and said all sorts of kind things to them, and carried their carpet-bags up the hill for them,
	narrator	and let them lean on them and cry, and told the king all about his brother's last moments,
	narrator	and the king he told it all over again on his hands to the duke, and both of them took on about that dead tanner like they'd lost the twelve disciples.
	narrator	Well, if ever I struck anything like it, I'm a nigger. It was enough to make a body ashamed of the human race.
