	narrator	CHAPTER XVIII. Col. Grangerford was a gentleman, you see. He was a gentleman all over; and so was his family.
	narrator	He was well born, as the saying is, and that's worth as much in a man as it is in a horse,
	narrator	so the Widow Douglas said, and nobody ever denied that she was of the first aristocracy in our town; and pap he always said it,
	narrator	too, though he warn't no more quality than a mudcat himself. Col. Grangerford was very tall and very slim,
	narrator	and had a darkish-paly complexion, not a sign of red in it anywheres; he was clean shaved every morning all over his thin face,
	narrator	and he had the thinnest kind of lips, and the thinnest kind of nostrils, and a high nose,
	narrator	and heavy eyebrows, and the blackest kind of eyes, sunk so deep back that they seemed like they was looking out of caverns at you,
	narrator	as you may say. His forehead was high, and his hair was black and straight and hung to his shoulders.
	narrator	His hands was long and thin, and every day of his life he put on a clean shirt and a full suit from head to foot made out of linen so white it hurt your eyes to look at it; and on Sundays he wore a blue tail-coat with brass
	narrator	buttons on it. He carried a mahogany cane with a silver head to it. There warn't no frivolishness about him,
	narrator	not a bit, and he warn't ever loud. He was as kind as he could be—you could feel that,
	narrator	you know, and so you had confidence. Sometimes he smiled, and it was good to see; but when he straightened himself up like a liberty-pole,
	narrator	and the lightning begun to flicker out from under his eyebrows, you wanted to climb a tree first,
	narrator	and find out what the matter was afterwards. He didn't ever have to tell anybody to mind their manners—everybody was always good-mannered where he was.
	narrator	Everybody loved to have him around, too; he was sunshine most always—I mean he made it seem like good weather.
	narrator	When he turned into a cloudbank it was awful dark for half a minute, and that was enough; there wouldn't nothing go wrong again for a week.
	narrator	When him and the old lady come down in the morning all the family got up out of their chairs and give them good-day,
	narrator	and didn't set down again till they had set down. Then Tom and Bob went to the sideboard where the decanter was,
	narrator	and mixed a glass of bitters and handed it to him, and he held it in his hand and waited till Tom's and Bob's was mixed,
	narrator	and then they bowed and said, "Our duty to you, sir, and madam;" and they bowed the least bit in the world and said thank you,
	narrator	and so they drank, all three, and Bob and Tom poured a spoonful of water on the sugar and the mite of whisky or apple brandy in the bottom of their tumblers,
	narrator	and give it to me and Buck, and we drank to the old people too. Bob was the oldest and Tom next—tall,
	narrator	beautiful men with very broad shoulders and brown faces, and long black hair and black eyes.
	narrator	They dressed in white linen from head to foot, like the old gentleman, and wore broad Panama hats.
	narrator	Then there was Miss Charlotte; she was twenty-five, and tall and proud and grand, but as good as she could be when she warn't stirred up; but when she was,
	narrator	she had a look that would make you wilt in your tracks, like her father. She was beautiful.
	narrator	So was her sister, Miss Sophia, but it was a different kind. She was gentle and sweet like a dove,
	narrator	and she was only twenty. Each person had their own nigger to wait on them—Buck too.
	narrator	My nigger had a monstrous easy time, because I warn't used to having anybody do anything for me,
	narrator	but Buck's was on the jump most of the time. This was all there was of the family now,
	narrator	but there used to be more—three sons; they got killed; and Emmeline that died. The old gentleman owned a lot of farms and over a hundred niggers.
	narrator	Sometimes a stack of people would come there, horseback, from ten or fifteen mile around, and stay five or six days,
	narrator	and have such junketings round about and on the river, and dances and picnics in the woods daytimes,
	narrator	and balls at the house nights. These people was mostly kinfolks of the family. The men brought their guns with them.
	narrator	It was a handsome lot of quality, I tell you. There was another clan of aristocracy around there—five or six families—mostly of the name of Shepherdson.
	narrator	They was as high-toned and well born and rich and grand as the tribe of Grangerfords.
	narrator	The Shepherdsons and Grangerfords used the same steamboat landing, which was about two mile above our house; so sometimes when I went up there with a lot of our folks I used to see a lot of the Shepherdsons there on their fine horses.
	narrator	One day Buck and me was away out in the woods hunting, and heard a horse coming.
	narrator	We was crossing the road. Buck says:
	buck grangerford	Quick! Jump for the woods!
	narrator	We done it, and then peeped down the woods through the leaves. Pretty soon a splendid young man come galloping down the road,
	narrator	setting his horse easy and looking like a soldier. He had his gun across his pommel.
	narrator	I had seen him before. It was young Harney Shepherdson. I heard Buck's gun go off at my ear,
	narrator	and Harney's hat tumbled off from his head. He grabbed his gun and rode straight to the place where we was hid.
	narrator	But we didn't wait. We started through the woods on a run. The woods warn't thick,
	narrator	so I looked over my shoulder to dodge the bullet, and twice I seen Harney cover Buck with his gun; and then he rode away the way he come—to get his hat,
	narrator	I reckon, but I couldn't see. We never stopped running till we got home. The old gentleman's eyes blazed a minute—'twas pleasure,
	narrator	mainly, I judged—then his face sort of smoothed down, and he says, kind of gentle:
	col. grangerford	I don't like that shooting from behind a bush. Why didn't you step into the road,
	col. grangerford	my boy?
	buck grangerford	The Shepherdsons don't, father. They always take advantage.
	narrator	Miss Charlotte she held her head up like a queen while Buck was telling his tale,
	narrator	and her nostrils spread and her eyes snapped. The two young men looked dark, but never said nothing.
	narrator	Miss Sophia she turned pale, but the color come back when she found the man warn't hurt.
	narrator	Soon as I could get Buck down by the corn-cribs under the trees by ourselves, I says:
	buck grangerford	Did you want to kill him, Buck? Well, I bet I did.
	narrator	What did he do to you?
	buck grangerford	Him? He never done nothing to me.
	narrator	Well, then, what did you want to kill him for?
	buck grangerford	Why, nothing—only it's on account of the feud.
	narrator	What's a feud?
	buck grangerford	Why, where was you raised? Don't you know what a feud is?
	narrator	Never heard of it before—tell me about it.
	buck grangerford	Well, a feud is this way. A man has a quarrel with another man, and kills him; then that other man's brother kills _him_; then the other brothers,
	buck grangerford	on both sides, goes for one another; then the _cousins_ chip in—and by-and-by everybody's killed off,
	buck grangerford	and there ain't no more feud. But it's kind of slow, and takes a long time.
	narrator	Has this one been going on long, Buck?
	buck grangerford	Well, I should _reckon!_ It started thirty year ago, or som'ers along there. There was trouble 'bout something,
	buck grangerford	and then a lawsuit to settle it; and the suit went agin one of the men,
	buck grangerford	and so he up and shot the man that won the suit—which he would naturally do,
	buck grangerford	of course. Anybody would.
	narrator	What was the trouble about, Buck?—land?
	buck grangerford	I reckon maybe—I don't know.
	narrator	Well, who done the shooting? Was it a Grangerford or a Shepherdson?
	buck grangerford	Laws, how do _I_ know? It was so long ago.
	narrator	Don't anybody know?
	buck grangerford	Oh, yes, pa knows, I reckon, and some of the other old people; but they don't know now what the row was about in the first place.
	narrator	Has there been many killed, Buck?
	buck grangerford	Yes; right smart chance of funerals. But they don't always kill. Pa's got a few buckshot in him; but he don't mind it 'cuz he don't weigh much,
	buck grangerford	anyway. Bob's been carved up some with a bowie, and Tom's been hurt once or twice.
	narrator	Has anybody been killed this year, Buck?
	buck grangerford	Yes; we got one and they got one. 'Bout three months ago my cousin Bud, fourteen year old,
	buck grangerford	was riding through the woods on t'other side of the river, and didn't have no weapon with him,
	buck grangerford	which was blame' foolishness, and in a lonesome place he hears a horse a-coming behind him,
	buck grangerford	and sees old Baldy Shepherdson a-linkin' after him with his gun in his hand and his white hair a-flying in the wind; and 'stead of jumping off and taking to the brush,
	buck grangerford	Bud 'lowed he could out-run him; so they had it, nip and tuck, for five mile or more,
	buck grangerford	the old man a-gaining all the time; so at last Bud seen it warn't any use,
	buck grangerford	so he stopped and faced around so as to have the bullet holes in front, you know,
	buck grangerford	and the old man he rode up and shot him down. But he didn't git much chance to enjoy his luck,
	buck grangerford	for inside of a week our folks laid _him_ out.
	narrator	I reckon that old man was a coward, Buck.
	buck grangerford	I reckon he _warn't_ a coward. Not by a blame' sight. There ain't a coward amongst them Shepherdsons—not a one.
	buck grangerford	And there ain't no cowards amongst the Grangerfords either. Why, that old man kep' up his end in a fight one day for half an hour against three Grangerfords,
	buck grangerford	and come out winner. They was all a-horseback; he lit off of his horse and got behind a little woodpile,
	buck grangerford	and kep' his horse before him to stop the bullets; but the Grangerfords stayed on their horses and capered around the old man,
	buck grangerford	and peppered away at him, and he peppered away at them. Him and his horse both went home pretty leaky and crippled,
	buck grangerford	but the Grangerfords had to be _fetched_ home—and one of 'em was dead, and another died the next day.
	buck grangerford	No, sir; if a body's out hunting for cowards he don't want to fool away any time amongst them Shepherdsons,
	buck grangerford	becuz they don't breed any of that _kind_.
	narrator	Next Sunday we all went to church, about three mile, everybody a-horseback. The men took their guns along,
	narrator	so did Buck, and kept them between their knees or stood them handy against the wall.
	narrator	The Shepherdsons done the same. It was pretty ornery preaching—all about brotherly love, and such-like tiresomeness; but everybody said it was a good sermon,
	narrator	and they all talked it over going home, and had such a powerful lot to say about faith and good works and free grace and preforeordestination,
	narrator	and I don't know what all, that it did seem to me to be one of the roughest Sundays I had run across yet.
	narrator	About an hour after dinner everybody was dozing around, some in their chairs and some in their rooms,
	narrator	and it got to be pretty dull. Buck and a dog was stretched out on the grass in the sun sound asleep.
	narrator	I went up to our room, and judged I would take a nap myself. I found that sweet Miss Sophia standing in her door,
	narrator	which was next to ours, and she took me in her room and shut the door very soft,
	narrator	and asked me if I liked her, and I said I did; and she asked me if I would do something for her and not tell anybody,
	narrator	and I said I would. Then she said she'd forgot her Testament, and left it in the seat at church between two other books,
	narrator	and would I slip out quiet and go there and fetch it to her, and not say nothing to nobody.
	narrator	I said I would. So I slid out and slipped off up the road, and there warn't anybody at the church,
	narrator	except maybe a hog or two, for there warn't any lock on the door, and hogs likes a puncheon floor in summer-time because it's cool.
	narrator	If you notice, most folks don't go to church only when they've got to; but a hog is different.
	narrator	Says I to myself, something's up; it ain't natural for a girl to be in such a sweat about a Testament.
	narrator	So I give it a shake, and out drops a little piece of paper with "Half-past two"
	narrator	wrote on it with a pencil. I ransacked it, but couldn't find anything else. I couldn't make anything out of that,
	narrator	so I put the paper in the book again, and when I got home and upstairs there was Miss Sophia in her door waiting for me.
	miss sophia	She pulled me in and shut the door; then she looked in the Testament till she found the paper,
	miss sophia	and as soon as she read it she looked glad; and before a body could think she grabbed me and give me a squeeze,
	miss sophia	and said I was the best boy in the world, and not to tell anybody. She was mighty red in the face for a minute,
	miss sophia	and her eyes lighted up, and it made her powerful pretty.
	narrator	I was a good deal astonished, but when I got my breath I asked her what the paper was about,
	miss sophia	and she asked me if I had read it, and I said no, and she asked me if I could read writing,
	miss sophia	and I told her "no, only coarse-hand, and then she said the paper warn't anything but a book-mark to keep her place,
	miss sophia	and I might go and play now.
	narrator	I went off down to the river, studying over this thing, and pretty soon I noticed that my nigger was following along behind.
	narrator	When we was out of sight of the house he looked back and around a second,
	narrator	and then comes a-running, and says:
	jim	Mars Jawge, if you'll come down into de swamp I'll show you a whole stack o'
	jim	water-moccasins.
	narrator	Thinks I, that's mighty curious; he said that yesterday. He oughter know a body don't love water-moccasins enough to go around hunting for them.
	narrator	What is he up to, anyway? So I says: All right; trot ahead. I followed a half a mile; then he struck out over the swamp,
	narrator	and waded ankle deep as much as another half-mile. We come to a little flat piece of land which was dry and very thick with trees and bushes and vines,
	narrator	and he says:
	jim	You shove right in dah jist a few steps, Mars Jawge; dah's whah dey is. I's seed 'm befo'; I don't k'yer to see 'em no mo'.
	narrator	Then he slopped right along and went away, and pretty soon the trees hid him. I poked into the place a-ways and come to a little open patch as big as a bedroom all hung around with vines,
	narrator	and found a man laying there asleep—and, by jings, it was my old Jim! I waked him up,
	narrator	and I reckoned it was going to be a grand surprise to him to see me again,
	narrator	but it warn't.
	jim	He nearly cried he was so glad, but he warn't surprised. Said he swum along behind me that night,
	jim	and heard me yell every time, but dasn't answer, because he didn't want nobody to pick _him_ up and take him into slavery again.
	jim	Says he: I got hurt a little, en couldn't swim fas', so I wuz a considable ways behine you towards de las'; when you landed I reck'ned I could ketch up wid you on de lan'
	jim	'dout havin' to shout at you, but when I see dat house I begin to go slow.
	jim	I 'uz off too fur to hear what dey say to you—I wuz 'fraid o' de dogs; but when it 'uz all quiet agin,
	jim	I knowed you's in de house, so I struck out for de woods to wait for day.
	jim	Early in de mawnin' some er de niggers come along, gwyne to de fields, en dey tuk me en showed me dis place,
	jim	whah de dogs can't track me on accounts o' de water, en dey brings me truck to eat every night,
	jim	en tells me how you's a-gitt'n along.
	huck	Why didn't you tell my Jack to fetch me here sooner, Jim?
	jim	Well, 'twarn't no use to 'sturb you, Huck, tell we could do sumfn—but we's all right now.
	jim	I ben a-buyin' pots en pans en vittles, as I got a chanst, en a-patchin' up de raf'
	jim	nights when—
	huck	What raft, Jim?
	jim	Our ole raf'.
	huck	You mean to say our old raft warn't smashed all to flinders?
	jim	No, she warn't. She was tore up a good deal—one en' of her was; but dey warn't no great harm done,
	jim	on'y our traps was mos' all los'. Ef we had'n dive' so deep en swum so fur under water,
	jim	en de night hadn't ben so dark, en we warn't so sk'yerd, en ben sich punkin-heads,
	jim	as de sayin' is, we'd a seed de raf'. But it's jis' as well we didn't,
	jim	'kase now she's all fixed up agin mos' as good as new, en we's got a new lot o'
	jim	stuff, in de place o' what 'uz los'.
	huck	Why, how did you get hold of the raft again, Jim—did you catch her?
	jim	How I gwyne to ketch her en I out in de woods? No; some er de niggers foun'
	jim	her ketched on a snag along heah in de ben', en dey hid her in a crick 'mongst de willows,
	jim	en dey wuz so much jawin' 'bout which un 'um she b'long to de mos' dat I come to heah 'bout it pooty soon,
	jim	so I ups en settles de trouble by tellin' 'um she don't b'long to none uv um,
	jim	but to you en me; en I ast 'm if dey gwyne to grab a young white genlman's propaty,
	jim	en git a hid'n for it? Den I gin 'm ten cents apiece, en dey 'uz mighty well satisfied,
	jim	en wisht some mo' raf's 'ud come along en make 'm rich agin. Dey's mighty good to me,
	jim	dese niggers is, en whatever I wants 'm to do fur me, I doan' have to ast 'm twice,
	jim	honey. Dat Jack's a good nigger, en pooty smart.
	huck	Yes, he is. He ain't ever told me you was here; told me to come, and he'd show me a lot of water-moccasins.
	huck	If anything happens he ain't mixed up in it. He can say he never seen us together,
	huck	and it'll be the truth.
	narrator	I don’t want to talk much about the next day. I reckon I’ll cut it pretty short.
	narrator	I waked up about dawn, and was a-going to turn over and go to sleep again,
	narrator	when I noticed how still it was—didn't seem to be anybody stirring. That warn't usual. Next I noticed that Buck was up and gone.
	narrator	Well, I gets up, a-wondering, and goes down stairs—nobody around; everything as still as a mouse.
	narrator	Just the same outside. Thinks I, what does it mean? Down by the wood-pile I comes across my Jack,
	narrator	and says: What's it all about?
	jack	Don't you know, Mars Jawge?
	narrator	No, says I, "I don't." Well, den, Miss Sophia’s run off! ’deed she has. She run off in de night some time—nobody don’t know jis’
	narrator	when; run off to get married to dat young Harney Shepherdson, you know—leastways, so dey ’spec.
	narrator	De fambly foun’ it out ’bout half an hour ago—maybe a little mo’—en’ I _tell_ you dey warn’t no time los’.
	narrator	Sich another hurryin’ up guns en hosses _you_ never see! De women folks has gone for to stir up de relations,
	narrator	en ole Mars Saul en de boys tuck dey guns en rode up de river road for to try to ketch dat young man en kill him ’fo’
	narrator	he kin git acrost de river wid Miss Sophia. I reck’n dey’s gwyne to be mighty rough times.
	narrator	Buck went off ’thout waking me up. Well, I reck’n he _did!_ Dey warn’t gwyne to mix you up in it.
	narrator	Mars Buck he loaded up his gun en ’lowed he’s gwyne to fetch home a Shepherdson or bust.
	narrator	Well, dey’ll be plenty un ’m dah, I reck’n, en you bet you he’ll fetch one ef he gits a chanst.
	narrator	I took up the river road as hard as I could put. By-and-by I begin to hear guns a good ways off.
	narrator	When I come in sight of the log store and the woodpile where the steamboats lands,
	narrator	I worked along under the trees and brush till I got to a good place, and then I clumb up into the forks of a cottonwood that was out of reach,
	narrator	and watched. There was a wood-rank four foot high a little ways in front of the tree,
	narrator	and first I was going to hide behind that; but maybe it was luckier I didn’t.
	narrator	There was four or five men cavorting around on their horses in the open place before the log store,
	narrator	cussing and yelling, and trying to get at a couple of young chaps that was behind the wood-rank alongside of the steamboat landing; but they couldn’t come it.
	narrator	Every time one of them showed himself on the river side of the woodpile he got shot at.
	narrator	The two boys was squatting back to back behind the pile, so they could watch both ways.
	narrator	By-and-by the men stopped cavorting around and yelling. They started riding towards the store; then up gets one of the boys,
	narrator	draws a steady bead over the wood-rank, and drops one of them out of his saddle.
	narrator	All the men jumped off of their horses and grabbed the hurt one and started to carry him to the store; and that minute the two boys started on the run.
	narrator	They got half way to the tree I was in before the men noticed. Then the men see them,
	narrator	and jumped on their horses and took out after them. They gained on the boys, but it didn’t do no good,
	narrator	the boys had too good a start; they got to the woodpile that was in front of my tree,
	narrator	and slipped in behind it, and so they had the bulge on the men again. One of the boys was Buck,
	narrator	and the other was a slim young chap about nineteen years old. The men ripped around awhile,
	narrator	and then rode away. As soon as they was out of sight I sung out to Buck and told him.
	narrator	He didn’t know what to make of my voice coming out of the tree at first.
	narrator	He was awful surprised. He told me to watch out sharp and let him know when the men come in sight again; said they was up to some devilment or other—wouldn’t be gone long.
	narrator	I wished I was out of that tree, but I dasn’t come down. Buck begun to cry and rip,
	narrator	and ’lowed that him and his cousin Joe (that was the other young chap) would make up for this day yet.
	narrator	He said his father and his two brothers was killed, and two or three of the enemy.
	narrator	Said the Shepherdsons laid for them in ambush. Buck said his father and brothers ought to waited for their relations—the Shepherdsons was too strong for them.
	narrator	I asked him what was become of young Harney and Miss Sophia. He said they’d got across the river and was safe.
	narrator	I was glad of that; but the way Buck did take on because he didn’t manage to kill Harney that day he shot at him—I hain’t ever heard anything like it.
	narrator	All of a sudden, bang! bang! bang! goes three or four guns—the men had slipped around through the woods and come in from behind without their horses!
	narrator	The boys jumped for the river—both of them hurt—and as they swum down the current the men run along the bank shooting at them and singing out,
	narrator	"Kill them, kill them!" It made me so sick I most fell out of the tree.
	narrator	I ain’t a-going to tell _all_ that happened—it would make me sick again if I was to do that.
	narrator	I wished I hadn’t ever come ashore that night to see such things. I ain’t ever going to get shut of them—lots of times I dream about them.
	narrator	I stayed in the tree till it begun to get dark, afraid to come down. Sometimes I heard guns away off in the woods; and twice I seen little gang of men gallop past the log store with guns; so I reckoned the trouble was still a-going on.
	narrator	I was mighty downhearted; so I made up my mind I wouldn’t ever go anear that house again,
	narrator	because I reckoned I was to blame, somehow. I judged that that piece of paper meant that Miss Sophia was to meet Harney somewheres at half-past two and run off; and I judged I ought to told her father about that paper and the curious way she acted,
	narrator	and then maybe he would a locked her up, and this awful mess wouldn’t ever happened.
	narrator	When I got down out of the tree, I crept along down the river bank a piece,
	narrator	and found the two bodies laying in the edge of the water, and tugged at them till I got them ashore; then I covered up their faces,
	narrator	and got away as quick as I could. I cried a little when I was covering up Buck’s face,
	narrator	for he was mighty good to me. It was just dark now. I never went near the house,
	narrator	but struck through the woods and made for the swamp. Jim warn’t on his island, so I tramped off in a hurry for the crick,
	narrator	and crowded through the willows, red-hot to jump aboard and get out of that awful country.
	narrator	The raft was gone! My souls, but I was scared! I couldn’t get my breath for most a minute.
	narrator	Then I raised a yell. A voice not twenty-five foot from me says:
	jim	Good lan’! is dat you, honey? Doan’ make no noise. Laws bless you, chile, I 'uz right down sho'
	jim	you's dead agin. Jack's been heah; he say he reck'n you's ben shot, kase you didn'
	jim	come home no mo'; so I's jes' dis minute a startin' de raf' down towards de mouf er de crick,
	jim	so's to be all ready for to shove out en leave soon as Jack comes agin en tells me for certain you _is_ dead.
	jim	Lawsy, I's mighty glad to git you back agin, honey.
	narrator	I says: All right—that's mighty good; they won't find me, and they'll think I've been killed,
	narrator	and floated down the river—there's something up there that'll help them think so—so don't you lose no time,
	narrator	Jim, but just shove off for the big water as fast as ever you can. I never felt easy till the raft was two mile below there and out in the middle of the Mississippi.
	narrator	Then we hung up our signal lantern, and judged that we was free and safe once more.
	narrator	I hadn't had a bite to eat since yesterday, so Jim he got out some corn-dodgers and buttermilk,
	narrator	and pork and cabbage and greens—there ain't nothing in the world so good when it's cooked right—and whilst I eat my supper we talked,
	narrator	and had a good time. I was powerful glad to get away from the feuds, and so was Jim to get away from the swamp.
	narrator	We said there warn't no home like a raft, after all. Other places do seem so cramped up and smothery,
	narrator	but a raft don't. You feel mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft.
