	narrator	The old man was uptown again before breakfast, but couldn't get no track of Tom; and both of them set at the table thinking,
	narrator	and not saying nothing, and looking mournful, and their coffee getting cold, and not eating anything.
	narrator	And by-and-by the old man says:
	old doctor	Did I give you the letter?
	narrator	"What letter?"
	old doctor	The one I got yesterday out of the post-office.
	narrator	"No, you didn't give me no letter."
	old doctor	Well, I must a forgot it.
	narrator	So he rummaged his pockets, and then went off somewheres where he had laid it down,
	narrator	and fetched it, and give it to her. She says: "Why, it's from St. Petersburg—it's from Sis."
	narrator	I allowed another walk would do me good; but I couldn't stir. But before she could break it open she dropped it and run—for she see something.
	narrator	And so did I. It was Tom Sawyer on a mattress; and that old doctor; and Jim,
	narrator	in _her_ calico dress, with his hands tied behind him; and a lot of people. I hid the letter behind the first thing that come handy,
	narrator	and rushed. She flung herself at Tom, crying,
	aunt sally	Oh, he's dead, he's dead, I know he's dead!
	narrator	And Tom he turned his head a little, and muttered something or other, which showed he warn't in his right mind; then she flung up her hands,
	narrator	and says:
	aunt sally	He's alive, thank God! And that's enough!
	narrator	and she snatched a kiss of him, and flew for the house to get the bed ready,
	narrator	and scattering orders right and left at the niggers and everybody else, as fast as her tongue could go,
	narrator	every jump of the way. I followed the men to see what they was going to do with Jim; and the old doctor and Uncle Silas followed after Tom into the house.
	narrator	The men was very huffy, and some of them wanted to hang Jim for an example to all the other niggers around there,
	narrator	so they wouldn't be trying to run away like Jim done, and making such a raft of trouble,
	narrator	and keeping a whole family scared most to death for days and nights. But the others said,
	narrator	don't do it, it wouldn't answer at all; he ain't our nigger, and his owner would turn up and make us pay for him,
	narrator	sure. So that cooled them down a little, because the people that's always the most anxious for to hang a nigger that hain't done just right is always the very ones that ain't the most anxious to pay for him when they've got their satisfaction out of him.
	narrator	They cussed Jim considerble, though, and give him a cuff or two side the head once in a while,
	narrator	but Jim never said nothing, and he never let on to know me, and they took him to the same cabin,
	narrator	and put his own clothes on him, and chained him again, and not to no bed-leg this time,
	narrator	but to a big staple drove into the bottom log, and chained his hands, too, and both legs,
	narrator	and said he warn't to have nothing but bread and water to eat after this till his owner come,
	narrator	or he was sold at auction because he didn't come in a certain length of time,
	narrator	and filled up our hole, and said a couple of farmers with guns must stand watch around about the cabin every night,
	narrator	and a bulldog tied to the door in the daytime; and about this time they was through with the job and was tapering off with a kind of generl good-bye cussing,
	narrator	and then the old doctor comes and takes a look, and says:
	old doctor	Don't be no rougher on him than you're obleeged to, because he ain't a bad nigger.
	old doctor	When I got to where I found the boy I see I couldn't cut the bullet out without some help,
	old doctor	and he warn't in no condition for me to leave to go and get help; and he got a little worse and a little worse,
	old doctor	and after a long time he went out of his head, and wouldn't let me come a-nigh him any more,
	old doctor	and said if I chalked his raft he'd kill me, and no end of wild foolishness like that,
	old doctor	and I see I couldn't do anything at all with him; so I says, I got to have _help_ somehow; and the minute I says it out crawls this nigger from somewheres and says he'll help,
	old doctor	and he done it, too, and done it very well. Of course I judged he must be a runaway nigger,
	old doctor	and there I _was!_ and there I had to stick right straight along all the rest of the day and all night.
	old doctor	It was a fix, I tell you! I had a couple of patients with the chills,
	old doctor	and of course I'd of liked to run up to town and see them, but I dasn't,
	old doctor	because the nigger might get away, and then I'd be to blame; and yet never a skiff come close enough for me to hail.
	old doctor	So there I had to stick plumb until daylight this morning; and I never see a nigger that was a better nuss or faithfuller,
	old doctor	and yet he was risking his freedom to do it, and was all tired out, too,
	old doctor	and I see plain enough he'd been worked main hard lately. I liked the nigger for that; I tell you,
	old doctor	gentlemen, a nigger like that is worth a thousand dollars—and kind treatment, too. I had everything I needed,
	old doctor	and the boy was doing as well there as he would a done at home—better, maybe,
	old doctor	because it was so quiet; but there I _was_, with both of 'm on my hands,
	old doctor	and there I had to stick till about dawn this morning; then some men in a skiff come by,
	old doctor	and as good luck would have it the nigger was setting by the pallet with his head propped on his knees sound asleep; so I motioned them in quiet,
	old doctor	and they slipped up on him and grabbed him and tied him before he knowed what he was about,
	old doctor	and we never had no trouble. And the boy being in a kind of a flighty sleep,
	old doctor	too, we muffled the oars and hitched the raft on, and towed her over very nice and quiet,
	old doctor	and the nigger never made the least row nor said a word from the start. He ain't no bad nigger,
	old doctor	gentlemen; that's what I think about him.
	narrator	Somebody says:
	someone	Well, it sounds very good, doctor, I'm obleeged to say.
	narrator	Then the others softened up a little, too, and I was mighty thankful to that old doctor for doing Jim that good turn; and I was glad it was according to my judgment of him,
	narrator	too; because I thought he had a good heart in him and was a good man the first time I see him.
	narrator	Then they all agreed that Jim had acted very well, and was deserving to have some notice took of it,
	narrator	and reward. So every one of them promised, right out and hearty, that they wouldn't cuss him no more.
	narrator	Then they come out and locked him up. I hoped they was going to say he could have one or two of the chains took off,
	narrator	because they was rotten heavy, or could have meat and greens with his bread and water; but they didn't think of it,
	narrator	and I reckoned it warn't best for me to mix in, but I judged I'd get the doctor's yarn to Aunt Sally somehow or other as soon as I'd got through the breakers that was laying just ahead of me—explanations,
	narrator	I mean, of how I forgot to mention about Sid being shot when I was telling how him and me put in that dratted night paddling around hunting the runaway nigger.
	narrator	But I had plenty time. Aunt Sally she stuck to the sick-room all day and all night,
	narrator	and every time I see Uncle Silas mooning around I dodged him. Next morning I heard Tom was a good deal better,
	narrator	and they said Aunt Sally was gone to get a nap. So I slips to the sick-room,
	narrator	and if I found him awake I reckoned we could put up a yarn for the family that would wash.
	narrator	But he was sleeping, and sleeping very peaceful, too; and pale, not fire-faced the way he was when he come.
	narrator	So I set down and laid for him to wake. In about half an hour Aunt Sally comes gliding in,
	narrator	and there I was, up a stump again!
	aunt sally	She motioned me to be still, and set down by me, and begun to whisper, and said we could all be joyful now,
	aunt sally	because all the symptoms was first-rate, and he'd been sleeping like that for ever so long,
	aunt sally	and looking better and peacefuller all the time, and ten to one he'd wake up in his right mind.
	narrator	So we set there watching, and by-and-by he stirs a bit, and opened his eyes very natural,
	narrator	and takes a look, and says:
	tom sawyer	Hello!—why, I'm at _home_! How's that? Where's the raft?
	narrator	"It's all right," I says.
	tom sawyer	And _Jim?_
	narrator	"The same," I says, but couldn't say it pretty brash.
	tom sawyer	But he never noticed, but says: Good! Splendid! _Now_ we're all right and safe! Did you tell Aunty?
	narrator	I was going to say yes; but she chipped in and says:
	aunt sally	About what, Sid?
	tom sawyer	Why, about the way the whole thing was done.
	aunt sally	What whole thing?
	tom sawyer	Why, _the_ whole thing. There ain't but one; how we set the runaway nigger free—me and Tom.
	aunt sally	Good land! Set the run— What _is_ the child talking about! Dear, dear, out of his head again!
	tom sawyer	_No_, I ain't out of my HEAD; I know all what I'm talking about. We _did_ set him free—me and Tom.
	tom sawyer	We laid out to do it, and we _done_ it. And we done it elegant, too.
	narrator	He'd got a start, and she never checked him up, just set and stared and stared,
	narrator	and let him clip along, and I see it warn't no use for _me_ to put in.
	tom sawyer	Why, Aunty, it cost us a power of work—weeks of it—hours and hours, every night, whilst you was all asleep.
	tom sawyer	And we had to steal candles, and the sheet, and the shirt, and your dress, and spoons,
	tom sawyer	and tin plates, and case-knives, and the warming-pan, and the grindstone, and flour, and just no end of things,
	tom sawyer	and you can't think what work it was to make the saws, and pens, and inscriptions,
	tom sawyer	and one thing or another, and you can't think _half_ the fun it was. And we had to make up the pictures of coffins and things,
	tom sawyer	and nonnamous letters from the robbers, and get up and down the lightning-rod, and dig the hole into the cabin,
	tom sawyer	and made the rope ladder and send it in cooked up in a pie, and send in spoons and things to work with in your apron pocket—
	aunt sally	Mercy sakes!
	tom sawyer	—and load up the cabin with rats and snakes and so on, for company for Jim; and then you kept Tom here so long with the butter in his hat that you come near spiling the whole business,
	tom sawyer	because the men come before we was out of the cabin, and we had to rush,
	tom sawyer	and they heard us and let drive at us, and I got my share, and we dodged out of the path and let them go by,
	tom sawyer	and when the dogs come they warn't interested in us, but went for the most noise,
	tom sawyer	and we got our canoe, and made for the raft, and was all safe, and Jim was a free man,
	tom sawyer	and we done it all by ourselves, and _wasn't_ it bully, Aunty!
	aunt sally	Well, I never heard the likes of it in all my born days! So it was _you_,
	aunt sally	you little rapscallions, that's been making all this trouble, and turned everybody's wits clean inside out and scared us all most to death.
	aunt sally	I've as good a notion as ever I had in my life to take it out o'
	aunt sally	you this very minute. To think, here I've been, night after night, a—_you_ just get well once,
	aunt sally	you young scamp, and I lay I'll tan the Old Harry out o' both o' ye!
	narrator	But Tom, he _was_ so proud and joyful, he just _couldn't_ hold in, and his tongue just _went_ it—she a-chipping in,
	narrator	and spitting fire all along, and both of them going it at once, like a cat convention; and she says:
	aunt sally	_Well_, you get all the enjoyment you can out of it _now_, for mind I tell you if I catch you meddling with him again—
	tom sawyer	Meddling with _who?_
	narrator	Tom says, dropping his smile and looking surprised.
	aunt sally	With _who?_ Why, the runaway nigger, of course. Who'd you reckon?
	tom sawyer	Tom, didn't you just tell me he was all right? Hasn't he got away?
	aunt sally	_Him?_
	narrator	says Aunt Sally; "the runaway nigger? 'Deed he hasn't. They've got him back, safe and sound,
	narrator	and he's in that cabin again, on bread and water, and loaded down with chains, till he's claimed or sold!"
	tom sawyer	They hain't no _right_ to shut him up! _Shove!_—and don't you lose a minute. Turn him loose!
	tom sawyer	he ain't no slave; he's as free as any cretur that walks this earth!
	aunt sally	What _does_ the child mean?
	tom sawyer	I mean every word I _say_, Aunt Sally, and if somebody don't go, _I'll_ go. I've knowed him all his life,
	tom sawyer	and so has Tom, there. Old Miss Watson died two months ago, and she was ashamed she ever was going to sell him down the river,
	tom sawyer	and _said_ so; and she set him free in her will.
	aunt sally	Then what on earth did _you_ want to set him free for, seeing he was already free?
	narrator	Well, that _is_ a question, I must say; and _just_ like women! Why, I wanted the _adventure_ of it; and I'd a waded neck-deep in blood to—goodness alive,
	narrator	AUNT POLLY! If she warn't standing right there, just inside the door, looking as sweet and contented as an angel half full of pie,
	narrator	I wish I may never!
	aunt sally	Oh, go on and call me Aunt Sally, I'm used to it now, and 'tain't no need to change
	narrator	Aunt Sally jumped for her, and most hugged the head off of her, and cried over her,
	narrator	and I found a good enough place for me under the bed, for it was getting pretty sultry for _us_,
	narrator	seemed to me. And I peeped out, and in a little while Tom's Aunt Polly shook herself loose and stood there looking across at Tom over her spectacles—kind of grinding him into the earth,
	narrator	you know. And then she says:
	aunt polly	Yes, you _better_ turn y'r head away—I would if I was you, Tom.
	aunt sally	Oh, deary me! _is_ he changed so? Why, that ain't _Tom_, it's Sid; Tom's—Tom's—why, where is Tom?
	aunt sally	He was here a minute ago.
	aunt polly	You mean where's Huck _Finn_—that's what you mean! I reckon I hain't raised such a scamp as my Tom all these years not to know him when I _see_ him.
	aunt polly	That _would_ be a pretty howdy-do. Come out from under that bed, Huck Finn.
	narrator	So I done it. But not feeling brash. Aunt Sally she was one of the mixed-upest-looking persons I ever see—except one,
	narrator	and that was Uncle Silas, when he come in and they told it all to him.
	narrator	It kind of made him drunk, as you may say, and he didn't know nothing at all the rest of the day,
	narrator	and preached a prayer-meeting sermon that night that gave him a rattling ruputation, because the oldest man in the world couldn't a understood it.
	narrator	So Tom's Aunt Polly, she told all about who I was, and what; and I had to up and tell how I was in such a tight place that when Mrs. Phelps took me for Tom Sawyer—
	aunt sally	Oh, go on and call me Aunt Sally, I'm used to it now, and 'tain't no need to change
	narrator	—that when Aunt Sally took me for Tom Sawyer I had to stand it—there warn't no other way,
	narrator	and I knowed he wouldn't mind, because it would be nuts for him, being a mystery,
	narrator	and he'd make an adventure out of it, and be perfectly satisfied. And so it turned out,
	narrator	and he let on to be Sid, and made things as soft as he could for me.
	narrator	And his Aunt Polly she said Tom was right about old Miss Watson setting Jim free in her will; and so,
	narrator	sure enough, Tom Sawyer had gone and took all that trouble and bother to set a free nigger free!
	narrator	and I couldn't ever understand before, until that minute and that talk, how he _could_ help a body set a nigger free with his bringing-up.
	narrator	Well, Aunt Polly she said that when Aunt Sally wrote to her that Tom and _Sid_ had come all right and safe,
	narrator	she says to herself:
	aunt polly	Look at that, now! I might have expected it, letting him go off that way without anybody to watch him.
	aunt polly	So now I got to go and trapse all the way down the river, eleven hundred mile,
	aunt polly	and find out what that creetur's up to _this_ time; as long as I couldn't seem to get any answer out of you about it.
	aunt sally	Why, I never heard nothing from you,
	aunt polly	Well, I wonder! Why, I wrote you twice to ask you what you could mean by Sid being here.
	aunt sally	Well, I never got 'em, Sis.
	aunt polly	You, Tom!
	tom sawyer	Well—_what?_ he says, kind of pettish.
	aunt polly	Don't you what _me_, you impudent thing—hand out them letters.
	tom sawyer	What letters?
	aunt polly	_Them_ letters. I be bound, if I have to take aholt of you I'll—
	tom sawyer	They're in the trunk. There, now. And they're just the same as they was when I got them out of the office.
	tom sawyer	I hain't looked into them, I hain't touched them. But I knowed they'd make trouble, and I thought if you warn't in no hurry,
	tom sawyer	I'd—
	aunt polly	Well, you _do_ need skinning, there ain't no mistake about it. And I wrote another one to tell you I was coming; and I s'pose he—
	tom sawyer	No, it come yesterday; I hain't read it yet, but _it's_ all right, I've got that one.
	narrator	I wanted to offer to bet two dollars she hadn't, but I reckoned maybe it was just as safe to not to.
	narrator	So I never said nothing. The first time I catched Tom private I asked him what was his idea,
	narrator	time of the evasion?—what it was he'd planned to do if the evasion worked all right and he managed to set a nigger free that was already free before?
	narrator	And he said, what he had planned in his head from the start, if we got Jim out all safe,
	narrator	was for us to run him down the river on the raft, and have adventures plumb to the mouth of the river,
	narrator	and then tell him about his being free, and take him back up home on a steamboat,
	narrator	in style, and pay him for his lost time, and write word ahead and get out all the niggers around,
	narrator	and have them waltz him into town with a torchlight procession and a brass-band, and then he would be a hero,
	narrator	and so would we. But I reckoned it was about as well the way it was.
	narrator	We had Jim out of the chains in no time, and when Aunt Polly and Uncle Silas and Aunt Sally found out how good he helped the doctor nurse Tom,
	narrator	they made a heap of fuss over him, and fixed him up prime, and give him all he wanted to eat,
	narrator	and a good time, and nothing to do. And we had him up to the sick-room,
	narrator	and had a high talk; and Tom give Jim forty dollars for being prisoner for us so patient,
	narrator	and doing it up so good, and Jim was pleased most to death, and busted out,
	narrator	and says:
	jim	_Dah_, now, Huck, what I tell you?—what I tell you up dah on Jackson islan'? I _tole_ you I got a hairy breas',
	jim	en what's de sign un it; en I _tole_ you I ben rich wunst, en gwineter to be rich _agin;_ en it's come true; en heah she _is!
	jim	Dah_, now! doan' talk to _me_—signs is _signs_, mine I tell you; en I knowed jis'
	jim	's well 'at I 'uz gwineter be rich agin as I's a-stannin' heah dis minute!
	tom sawyer	And then Tom he talked along and talked along, and says, le's all three slide out of here one of these nights and get an outfit,
	tom sawyer	and go for howling adventures amongst the Injuns, over in the Territory, for a couple of weeks or two;
	huck finn	I says, all right, that suits me, but I ain't got no money for to buy the outfit,
	huck finn	and I reckon I couldn't get none from home, because it's likely pap's been back before now,
	huck finn	and got it all away from Judge Thatcher and drunk it up.
	tom sawyer	No, he hain't, it's all there yet—six thousand dollars and more; and your pap hain't ever been back since.
	tom sawyer	Hadn't when I come away, anyhow.
	jim	He ain't a-comin' back no mo', Huck.
	huck finn	Why, Jim?
	jim	Nemmine why, Huck—but he ain't comin' back no mo.
	huck finn	But I kept at him; so at last he says:
	jim	Doan' you 'member de house dat was float'n down de river, en dey wuz a man in dah,
	jim	kivered up, en I went in en unkivered him and didn' let you come in? Well,
	jim	den, you kin git yo' money when you wants it, kase dat wuz him.
	narrator	Tom's most well now, and got his bullet around his neck on a watch-guard for a watch,
	narrator	and is always seeing what time it is, and so there ain't nothing more to write about,
	narrator	and I am rotten glad of it, because if I'd a knowed what a trouble it was to make a book I wouldn't a tackled it,
	narrator	and ain't a-going to no more. But I reckon I got to light out for the Territory ahead of the rest,
	narrator	because Aunt Sally she's going to adopt me and sivilize me, and I can't stand it.
	narrator	I been there before. THE END. YOURS TRULY, _HUCK FINN_.
