	narrator	CHAPTER XI.
	woman	Come in
	narrator	says the woman, and I did.
	woman	Take a cheer.
	narrator	I done it. She looked me all over with her little shiny eyes, and says:
	woman	What might your name be?
	sarah williams	Sarah Williams.
	woman	Where ’bouts do you live? In this neighborhood?
	sarah williams	No'm. In Hookerville, seven mile below. I've walked all the way and I'm all tired out.
	woman	Hungry, too, I reckon. I'll find you something.
	sarah williams	No'm, I ain't hungry. I was so hungry I had to stop two miles below here at a farm; so I ain't hungry no more.
	sarah williams	It's what makes me so late. My mother's down sick, and out of money and everything,
	sarah williams	and I come to tell my uncle Abner Moore. He lives at the upper end of the town,
	sarah williams	she says. I hain't ever been here before. Do you know him?
	woman	No; but I don't know everybody yet. I haven't lived here quite two weeks. It's a considerable ways to the upper end of the town.
	woman	You better stay here all night. Take off your bonnet.
	sarah williams	No, I'll rest a while, I reckon, and go on. I ain't afeared of the dark.
	woman	She said she wouldn't let me go by myself, but her husband would be in by-and-by,
	woman	maybe in a hour and a half, and she'd send him along with me. Then she got to talking about her husband,
	woman	and about her relations up the river, and her relations down the river, and about how much better off they used to was,
	woman	and how they didn't know but they'd made a mistake coming to our town, instead of letting well alone—and so on and so on,
	woman	till I was afeard I had made a mistake coming to her to find out what was going on in the town; but by-and-by she dropped on to pap and the murder,
	woman	and then I was pretty willing to let her clatter right along. She told about me and Tom Sawyer finding the six thousand dollars (only she got it ten) and all about pap and what a hard lot he was,
	woman	and what a hard lot I was, and at last she got down to where I was murdered.
	woman	I says:
	sarah williams	Who done it? We've heard considerable about these goings on down in Hookerville, but we don't know who 'twas that killed Huck Finn.
	woman	Well, I reckon there's a right smart chance of people here that'd like to know who killed him.
	woman	Some think old Finn done it himself.
	sarah williams	No—is that so?
	woman	Most everybody thought it at first. He'll never know how nigh he come to getting lynched.
	woman	But before night they changed around and judged it was done by a runaway nigger named Jim.
	sarah williams	Why _he_—
	narrator	I stopped. I reckoned I better keep still.
	woman	She run on, and never noticed I had put in at all:
	narrator	The nigger run off the very night Huck Finn was killed. So there's a reward out for him—three hundred dollars.
	narrator	And there's a reward out for old Finn, too—two hundred dollars. You see, he come to town the morning after the murder,
	narrator	and told about it, and was out with 'em on the ferry-boat hunt, and right away after he up and left.
	narrator	Before night they wanted to lynch him, but he was gone, you see. Well, next day they found out the nigger was gone; they found out he hadn't ben seen sence ten o'clock the night the murder was done.
	narrator	So then they put it on him, you see; and while they was full of it,
	narrator	next day, back comes old Finn, and went boo-hooing to Judge Thatcher to get money to hunt for the nigger all over Illinois with.
	narrator	The judge gave him some, and that evening he got drunk, and was around till after midnight with a couple of mighty hard-looking strangers,
	narrator	and then went off with them. Well, he hain't come back sence, and they ain't looking for him back till this thing blows over a little,
	narrator	for people thinks now that he killed his boy and fixed things so folks would think robbers done it,
	narrator	and then he'd get Huck's money without having to bother a long time with a lawsuit.
	narrator	People do say he warn't any too good to do it. Oh, he's sly, I reckon.
	narrator	If he don't come back for a year he'll be all right. You can't prove anything on him,
	narrator	you know; everything will be quieted down then, and he'll walk in Huck's money as easy as nothing.
	narrator	Yes, I reckon so, 'm. I don't see nothing in the way of it. Has everybody quit thinking the nigger done it?
	narrator	Oh, no, not everybody. A good many thinks he done it. But they'll get the nigger pretty soon now,
	narrator	and maybe they can scare it out of him. Why, are they after him yet? Well,
	narrator	you're innocent, ain't you! Does three hundred dollars lay around every day for people to pick up?
	narrator	Some folks think the nigger ain't far from here. I'm one of them—but I hain't talked it around.
	narrator	A few days ago I was talking with an old couple that lives next door in the log shanty,
	narrator	and they happened to say hardly anybody ever goes to that island over yonder that they call Jackson's Island.
	narrator	Don't anybody live there? says I. No, nobody, says they. I didn't say any more, but I done some thinking.
	narrator	I was pretty near certain I'd seen smoke over there, about the head of the island,
	narrator	a day or two before that, so I says to myself, like as not that nigger's hiding over there; anyway,
	narrator	says I, it's worth the trouble to give the place a hunt. I hain't seen any smoke sence,
	narrator	so I reckon maybe he's gone, if it was him; but husband's going over to see—him and another man.
	narrator	He was gone up the river; but he got back to-day, and I told him as soon as he got here two hours ago.
	narrator	I had got so uneasy I couldn't set still. I had to do something with my hands; so I took up a needle off of the table and went to threading it.
	narrator	My hands shook, and I was making a bad job of it. When the woman stopped talking I looked up,
	narrator	and she was looking at me pretty curious and smiling a little. I put down the needle and thread,
	narrator	and let on to be interested—and I was, too—and says:
	sarah williams	Three hundred dollars is a power of money. I wish my mother could get it. Is your husband going over there to-night?
	mrs. judith loftus	Oh, yes. He went up-town with the man I was telling you of, to get a boat and see if they could borrow another gun.
	mrs. judith loftus	They'll go over after midnight.
	sarah williams	Couldn't they see better if they was to wait till daytime?
	narrator	Yes. And couldn't the nigger see better, too? After midnight he'll likely be asleep, and they can slip around through the woods and hunt up his camp fire all the better for the dark,
	narrator	if he's got one. I didn't think of that. The woman kept looking at me pretty curious,
	narrator	and I didn't feel a bit comfortable. Pretty soon she says,
	mrs. judith loftus	What did you say your name was, honey?
	sarah williams	M—Mary Williams.
	narrator	Somehow it didn't seem to me that I said it was Mary before, so I didn't look up—seemed to me I said it was Sarah; so I felt sort of cornered,
	narrator	and was afeared maybe I was looking it, too. I wished the woman would say something more; the longer she set still the uneasier I was.
	narrator	But now she says:
	mrs. judith loftus	Honey, I thought you said it was Sarah when you first come in?
	sarah williams	Oh, yes'm, I did. Sarah Mary Williams. Sarah's my first name. Some calls me Sarah, some calls me Mary.
	mrs. judith loftus	Oh, that's the way of it?
	sarah williams	Yes'm.
	narrator	I was feeling better then, but I wished I was out of there, anyway. I couldn't look up yet.
	narrator	Well, the woman fell to talking about how hard times was, and how poor they had to live,
	narrator	and how the rats was as free as if they owned the place, and so forth and so on,
	narrator	and then I got easy again. She was right about the rats. You'd see one stick his nose out of a hole in the corner every little while.
	narrator	She said she had to have things handy to throw at them when she was alone,
	narrator	or they wouldn't give her no peace. She showed me a bar of lead twisted up into a knot,
	narrator	and said she was a good shot with it generly, but she'd wrenched her arm a day or two ago,
	narrator	and didn't know whether she could throw true now. But she watched for a chance, and directly banged away at a rat; but she missed him wide,
	narrator	and said "Ouch!" it hurt her arm so. Then she told me to try for the next one.
	narrator	I wanted to be getting away before the old man got back, but of course I didn't let on.
	narrator	I got the thing, and the first rat that showed his nose I let drive, and if he'd a stayed where he was he'd a been a tolerable sick rat.
	narrator	She said that was first-rate, and she reckoned I would hive the next one. She went and got the lump of lead and fetched it back,
	narrator	and brought along a hank of yarn which she wanted me to help her with. I held up my two hands and she put the hank over them,
	narrator	and went on talking about her and her husband's matters. But she broke off to say:
	mrs. judith loftus	Keep your eye on the rats. You better have the lead in your lap, handy.
	narrator	So she dropped the lump into my lap just at that moment, and I clapped my legs together on it and she went on talking.
	narrator	But only about a minute. Then she took off the hank and looked me straight in the face,
	narrator	and very pleasant, and says:
	mrs. judith loftus	Come, now, what's your real name?
	sarah williams	Wh—what, mum?
	mrs. judith loftus	What's your real name? Is it Bill, or Tom, or Bob?—or what is it?
	narrator	I reckon I shook like a leaf, and I didn't know hardly what to do. But I says:
	sarah williams	Please to don't poke fun at a poor girl like me, mum. If I'm in the way here,
	sarah williams	I'll—
	mrs. judith loftus	No, you won't. Set down and stay where you are. I ain't going to hurt you,
	mrs. judith loftus	and I ain't going to tell on you, nuther. You just tell me your secret, and trust me.
	mrs. judith loftus	I'll keep it; and, what's more, I'll help you. So'll my old man if you want him to.
	mrs. judith loftus	You see, you're a runaway 'prentice, that's all. It ain't anything. There ain't no harm in it.
	mrs. judith loftus	You've been treated bad, and you made up your mind to cut. Bless you, child, I wouldn't tell on you.
	mrs. judith loftus	Tell me all about it now, that's a good boy.
	narrator	So I said it wouldn't be no use to try to play it any longer, and I would just make a clean breast and tell her everything,
	narrator	but she musn't go back on her promise. Then I told her my father and mother was dead,
	narrator	and the law had bound me out to a mean old farmer in the country thirty mile back from the river,
	narrator	and he treated me so bad I couldn't stand it no longer; he went away to be gone a couple of days,
	narrator	and so I took my chance and stole some of his daughter's old clothes and cleared out,
	narrator	and I had been three nights coming the thirty miles. I traveled nights, and hid daytimes and slept,
	narrator	and the bag of bread and meat I carried from home lasted me all the way,
	narrator	and I had a-plenty. I said I believed my uncle Abner Moore would take care of me,
	narrator	and so that was why I struck out for this town of Goshen.
	mrs. judith loftus	Goshen, child? This ain't Goshen. This is St. Petersburg. Goshen's ten mile further up the river.
	mrs. judith loftus	Who told you this was Goshen?
	sarah williams	Why, a man I met at daybreak this morning, just as I was going to turn into the woods for my regular sleep.
	sarah williams	He told me when the roads forked I must take the right hand, and five mile would fetch me to Goshen.
	mrs. judith loftus	He was drunk, I reckon. He told you just exactly wrong.
	sarah williams	Well, he did act like he was drunk, but it ain't no matter now. I got to be moving along.
	sarah williams	I'll fetch Goshen before daylight.
	mrs. judith loftus	Hold on a minute. I'll put you up a snack to eat. You might want it.
	narrator	So she put me up a snack, and says:
	mrs. judith loftus	Say, when a cow's laying down, which end of her gets up first? Answer up prompt now—don't stop to study over it.
	mrs. judith loftus	Which end gets up first?
	sarah williams	The hind end, mum.
	mrs. judith loftus	Well, then, a horse?
	sarah williams	The for'rard end, mum.
	mrs. judith loftus	Which side of a tree does the moss grow on?
	sarah williams	North side.
	mrs. judith loftus	If fifteen cows is browsing on a hillside, how many of them eats with their heads pointed the same direction?
	sarah williams	The whole fifteen, mum.
	mrs. judith loftus	Well, I reckon you _have_ lived in the country. I thought maybe you was trying to hocus me again.
	mrs. judith loftus	What's your real name, now?
	sarah williams	George Peters, mum.
	mrs. judith loftus	Well, try to remember it, George. Don't forget and tell me it's Elexander before you go,
	mrs. judith loftus	and then get out by saying it's George Elexander when I catch you. And don't go about women in that old calico.
	mrs. judith loftus	You do a girl tolerable poor, but you might fool men, maybe. Bless you, child, when you set out to thread a needle don't hold the thread still and fetch the needle up to it; hold the needle still and poke the thread at it; that's the way a woman
	mrs. judith loftus	most always does, but a man always does t'other way. And when you throw at a rat or anything,
	mrs. judith loftus	hitch yourself up a tiptoe and fetch your hand up over your head as awkward as you can,
	mrs. judith loftus	and miss your rat about six or seven foot. Throw stiff-armed from the shoulder, like there was a pivot there for it to turn on,
	mrs. judith loftus	like a girl; not from the wrist and elbow, with your arm out to one side,
	mrs. judith loftus	like a boy. And, mind you, when a girl tries to catch anything in her lap she throws her knees apart; she don't clap them together,
	mrs. judith loftus	the way you did when you catched the lump of lead. Why, I spotted you for a boy when you was threading the needle; and I contrived the other things just to make certain.
	mrs. judith loftus	Now trot along to your uncle, Sarah Mary Williams George Elexander Peters, and if you get into trouble you send word to Mrs. Judith Loftus,
	mrs. judith loftus	which is me, and I'll do what I can to get you out of it. Keep the river road all the way,
	mrs. judith loftus	and next time you tramp take shoes and socks with you. The river road's a rocky one,
	mrs. judith loftus	and your feet'll be in a condition when you get to Goshen, I reckon.
	narrator	I went up the bank about fifty yards, and then I doubled on my tracks and slipped back to where my canoe was,
	narrator	a good piece below the house. I jumped in, and was off in a hurry. I went up-stream far enough to make the head of the island,
	narrator	and then started across. I took off the sun-bonnet, for I didn't want no blinders on then.
	narrator	When I was about the middle I heard the clock begin to strike, so I stops and listens; the sound come faint over the water but clear—eleven.
	narrator	When I struck the head of the island I never waited to blow, though I was most winded,
	narrator	but I shoved right into the timber where my old camp used to be, and started a good fire there on a high and dry spot.
	narrator	Then I jumped in the canoe and dug out for our place, a mile and a half below,
	narrator	as hard as I could go. I landed, and slopped through the timber and up the ridge and into the cavern.
	narrator	There Jim laid, sound asleep on the ground. I roused him out and says: Git up and hump yourself,
	narrator	Jim! There ain't a minute to lose. They're after us! Jim never asked no questions, he never said a word; but the way he worked for the next half an hour showed about how he was scared.
	narrator	By that time everything we had in the world was on our raft, and she was ready to be shoved out from the willow cove where she was hid.
	narrator	We put out the camp fire at the cavern the first thing, and didn't show a candle outside after that.
	narrator	I took the canoe out from the shore a little piece, and took a look; but if there was a boat around I couldn't see it,
	narrator	for stars and shadows ain't good to see by. Then we got out the raft and slipped along down in the shade,
	narrator	past the foot of the island dead still—never saying a word.
