	narrator	CHAPTER XII. It must a been close on to one o'clock when we got below the island at last,
	narrator	and the raft did seem to go mighty slow. If a boat was to come along we was going to take to the canoe and break for the Illinois shore; and it was well a boat didn't come,
	narrator	for we hadn't ever thought to put the gun in the canoe, or a fishing-line, or anything to eat.
	narrator	We was in ruther too much of a sweat to think of so many things. It warn't good judgment to put _everything_ on the raft.
	narrator	If the men went to the island I just expect they found the camp fire I built,
	narrator	and watched it all night for Jim to come. Anyways, they stayed away from us, and if my building the fire never fooled them it warn't no fault of mine.
	narrator	I played it as low down on them as I could. When the first streak of day began to show we tied up to a tow-head in a big bend on the Illinois side,
	narrator	and hacked off cottonwood branches with the hatchet, and covered up the raft with them so she looked like there had been a cave-in in the bank there.
	narrator	A tow-head is a sandbar that has cottonwoods on it as thick as harrow-teeth. We had mountains on the Missouri shore and heavy timber on the Illinois side,
	narrator	and the channel was down the Missouri shore at that place, so we warn't afraid of anybody running across us.
	narrator	We laid there all day, and watched the rafts and steamboats spin down the Missouri shore,
	narrator	and up-bound steamboats fight the big river in the middle.
	huck finn	I told Jim all about the time I had jabbering with that woman;
	jim	and Jim said she was a smart one, and if she was to start after us herself _she_ wouldn't set down and watch a camp fire—no,
	jim	sir, she'd fetch a dog.
	huck finn	Well, then, I said, why couldn't she tell her husband to fetch a dog?
	jim	Jim said he bet she did think of it by the time the men was ready to start,
	jim	and he believed they must a gone up-town to get a dog and so they lost all that time,
	jim	or else we wouldn't be here on a tow-head sixteen or seventeen mile below the village—no,
	jim	indeedy, we would be in that same old town again.
	huck finn	So I said I didn't care what was the reason they didn't get us as long as they didn't.
	narrator	When it was beginning to come on dark we poked our heads out of the cottonwood thicket,
	narrator	and looked up and down and across; nothing in sight; so Jim took up some of the top planks of the raft and built a snug wigwam to get under in blazing weather and rainy,
	narrator	and to keep the things dry. Jim made a floor for the wigwam, and raised it a foot or more above the level of the raft,
	narrator	so now the blankets and all the traps was out of reach of steamboat waves. Right in the middle of the wigwam we made a layer of dirt about five or six inches deep with a frame around it for to hold it to its place; this was to build
	narrator	a fire on in sloppy weather or chilly; the wigwam would keep it from being seen.
	narrator	We made an extra steering-oar, too, because one of the others might get broke on a snag or something.
	narrator	We fixed up a short forked stick to hang the old lantern on, because we must always light the lantern whenever we see a steamboat coming down-stream,
	narrator	to keep from getting run over; but we wouldn't have to light it for up-stream boats unless we see we was in what they call a "crossing"; for the river was pretty high yet,
	narrator	very low banks being still a little under water; so up-bound boats didn't always run the channel,
	narrator	but hunted easy water. This second night we run between seven and eight hours, with a current that was making over four mile an hour.
	narrator	We catched fish and talked, and we took a swim now and then to keep off sleepiness.
	narrator	It was kind of solemn, drifting down the big, still river, laying on our backs looking up at the stars,
	narrator	and we didn't ever feel like talking loud, and it warn't often that we laughed—only a little kind of a low chuckle.
	narrator	We had mighty good weather as a general thing, and nothing ever happened to us at all that night,
	narrator	nor the next, nor the next. Every night we passed towns, some of them away up on black hillsides,
	narrator	nothing but just a shiny bed of lights; not a house could you see. The fifth night we passed St. Louis,
	narrator	and it was like the whole world lit up. In St. Petersburg they used to say there was twenty or thirty thousand people in St. Louis,
	narrator	but I never believed it till I see that wonderful spread of lights at two o'clock that still night.
	narrator	There warn't a sound there; everybody was asleep. Every night now I used to slip ashore towards ten o'clock at some little village,
	narrator	and buy ten or fifteen cents' worth of meal or bacon or other stuff to eat; and sometimes I lifted a chicken that warn't roosting comfortable,
	narrator	and took him along. Pap always said, take a chicken when you get a chance, because if you don't want him yourself you can easy find somebody that does,
	narrator	and a good deed ain't ever forgot. I never see pap when he didn't want the chicken himself,
	narrator	but that is what he used to say, anyway. Mornings before daylight I slipped into cornfields and borrowed a watermelon,
	narrator	or a mushmelon, or a punkin, or some new corn, or things of that kind. Pap always said it warn't no harm to borrow things if you was meaning to pay them back some time; but the widow said it warn't anything but a soft name for stealing,
	narrator	and no decent body would do it.
	jim	Jim said he reckoned the widow was partly right and pap was partly right; so the best way would be for us to pick out two or three things from the list and say we wouldn't borrow them any more—then he reckoned it wouldn't be no harm to borrow the
	jim	others.
	narrator	So we talked it over all one night, drifting along down the river, trying to make up our minds whether to drop the watermelons,
	narrator	or the cantelopes, or the mushmelons, or what. But towards daylight we got it all settled satisfactory,
	narrator	and concluded to drop crabapples and p'simmons. We warn't feeling just right before that, but it was all comfortable now.
	narrator	I was glad the way it come out, too, because crabapples ain't ever good, and the p'simmons wouldn't be ripe for two or three months yet.
	narrator	We shot a water-fowl, now and, then that got up too early in the morning or didn’t go to bed early enough in the evening.
	narrator	Take it all round, we lived pretty high. The fifth night below St. Louis we had a big storm after midnight,
	narrator	with a power of thunder and lightning, and the rain poured down in a solid sheet.
	narrator	We stayed in the wigwam and let the raft take care of itself. When the lightning glared out we could see a big straight river ahead,
	narrator	and high, rocky bluffs on both sides.
	huck finn	Hel-_lo_, Jim, looky yonder!
	narrator	It was a steamboat that had killed herself on a rock. We was drifting straight down for her.
	narrator	The lightning showed her very distinct. She was leaning over, with part of her upper deck above water,
	narrator	and you could see every little chimbly-guy clean and clear, and a chair by the big bell,
	narrator	with an old slouch hat hanging on the back of it, when the flashes come. Well,
	narrator	it being away in the night and stormy, and all so mysterious-like, I felt just the way any other boy would a felt when I see that wreck laying there so mournful and lonesome in the middle of the river.
	narrator	I wanted to get aboard of her and slink around a little, and see what there was there.
	narrator	So I says:
	huck finn	Le's land on her, Jim.
	jim	I doan' want to go fool'n 'long er no wrack. We's doin' blame' well, en we better let blame'
	jim	well alone, as de good book says. Like as not dey's a watchman on dat wrack.
	huck finn	Watchman your grandmother, I says; there ain't nothing to watch but the texas and the pilot-house; and do you reckon anybody's going to resk his life for a texas and a pilot-house such a night as this,
	huck finn	when it's likely to break up and wash off down the river any minute?
	narrator	Jim couldn't say nothing to that, so he didn't try.
	huck finn	And besides, I says, we might borrow something worth having out of the captain's stateroom. Seegars,
	huck finn	I bet you—and cost five cents apiece, solid cash. Steamboat captains is always rich, and get sixty dollars a month,
	huck finn	and they don't care a cent what a thing costs, you know, long as they want it.
	huck finn	Stick a candle in your pocket; I can't rest, Jim, till we give her a rummaging.
	huck finn	Do you reckon Tom Sawyer would ever go by this thing? Not for pie, he wouldn't.
	huck finn	He'd call it an adventure—that's what he'd call it; and he'd land on that wreck if it was his last act.
	huck finn	And wouldn't he throw style into it?—wouldn't he spread himself, nor nothing? Why, you'd think it was Christopher C'lumbus discovering Kingdom-Come.
	huck finn	I wish Tom Sawyer was here.
	jim	Jim he grumbled a little, but give in. He said we mustn't talk any more than we could help,
	jim	and then talk mighty low.
	narrator	The lightning showed us the wreck again just in time, and we fetched the stabboard derrick,
	narrator	and made fast there. The deck was high out here. We went sneaking down the slope of it to labboard,
	narrator	in the dark, towards the texas, feeling our way slow with our feet, and spreading our hands out to fend off the guys,
	narrator	for it was so dark we couldn't see no sign of them. Pretty soon we struck the forward end of the skylight,
	narrator	and clumb on to it; and the next step fetched us in front of the captain's door,
	narrator	which was open, and by Jimminy, away down through the texas-hall we see a light! and all in the same second we seem to hear low voices in yonder!
	jim	Jim whispered and said he was feeling powerful sick, and told me to come along.
	huck finn	I says, all right, and was going to start for the raft; but just then I heard a voice wail out and say:
	jim turner	Oh, please don't, boys; I swear I won't ever tell!
	bill	It's a lie, Jim Turner. You've acted this way before. You always want more'n your share of the truck,
	bill	and you've always got it, too, because you've swore 't if you didn't you'd tell. But this time you've said it jest one time too many.
	bill	You're the meanest, treacherousest hound in this country.
	narrator	By this time Jim was gone for the raft. I was just a-biling with curiosity; and I says to myself,
	narrator	Tom Sawyer wouldn't back out now, and so I won't either; I'm a-going to see what's going on here.
	narrator	So I dropped on my hands and knees in the little passage, and crept aft in the dark till there warn't but one stateroom betwixt me and the cross-hall of the texas.
	narrator	Then in there I see a man stretched on the floor and tied hand and foot,
	narrator	and two men standing over him, and one of them had a dim lantern in his hand,
	narrator	and the other one had a pistol. This one kept pointing the pistol at the man's head on the floor,
	narrator	and saying:
	bill	I'd _like_ to! And I orter, too—a mean skunk!
	jim turner	Oh, please don't, Bill; I hain't ever goin' to tell.
	jake packard	Deed you _ain't!_ You never said no truer thing 'n that, you bet you. Hear him beg!
	jake packard	and yit if we hadn't got the best of him and tied him he'd a killed us both.
	jake packard	And what _for?_ Jist for noth'n. Jist because we stood on our _rights_—that's what for. But I lay you ain't a-goin'
	jake packard	to threaten nobody any more, Jim Turner. Put _up_ that pistol, Bill.
	bill	I don't want to, Jake Packard. I'm for killin' him—and didn't he kill old Hatfield jist the same way—and don't he deserve it?
	jake packard	But I don't _want_ him killed, and I've got my reasons for it.
	bill	Bless yo' heart for them words, Jake Packard! I'll never forgit you long's I live!
	jim turner	sort of blubbering.
	jake packard	Packard didn't take no notice of that, but hung up his lantern on a nail and started towards where I was there in the dark,
	jake packard	and motioned Bill to come. Here—come in here.
	narrator	And in he come, and Bill after him. But before they got in I was up in the upper berth,
	narrator	cornered, and sorry I come. Then they stood there, with their hands on the ledge of the berth,
	narrator	and talked. I couldn't see them, but I could tell where they was by the whisky they'd been having.
	narrator	I was glad I didn't drink whisky; but it wouldn't made much difference anyway, because most of the time they couldn't a treed me because I didn't breathe.
	narrator	I was too scared. And, besides, a body _couldn't_ breathe and hear such talk. They talked low and earnest.
	bill	He's said he'll tell, and he will. If we was to give both our shares to him _now_ it wouldn't make no difference after the row and the way we've served him.
	bill	Shore's you're born, he'll turn State's evidence; now you hear _me_. I'm for putting him out of his troubles.
	jake packard	So'm I,
	bill	Blame it, I'd sorter begun to think you wasn't. Well, then, that's all right. Le's go and do it.
	jake packard	Hold on a minute; I hain't had my say yit. You listen to me. Shooting's good,
	jake packard	but there's quieter ways if the thing's _got_ to be done. But what _I_ say is this: it ain't good sense to go court'n around after a halter if you can git at what you're up to in some way that's jist as good and at the same time don't
	jake packard	bring you into no resks. Ain't that so?
	bill	You bet it is. But how you goin' to manage it this time?
	jake packard	Well, my idea is this: we'll rustle around and gather up whatever pickins we've overlooked in the staterooms,
	jake packard	and shove for shore and hide the truck. Then we'll wait. Now I say it ain't a-goin'
	jake packard	to be more'n two hours befo' this wrack breaks up and washes off down the river.
	jake packard	See? He'll be drownded, and won't have nobody to blame for it but his own self.
	jake packard	I reckon that's a considerble sight better 'n killin' of him. I'm unfavorable to killin' a man as long as you can git aroun'
	jake packard	it; it ain't good sense, it ain't good morals. Ain't I right?
	bill	Yes, I reck'n you are. But s'pose she _don't_ break up and wash off?
	jake packard	Well, we can wait the two hours anyway and see, can't we?
	bill	All right, then; come along.
	narrator	So they started, and I lit out, all in a cold sweat, and scrambled forward. It was dark as pitch there; but I said,
	narrator	in a kind of a coarse whisper, "Jim!"
	jim	Quick, Jim, it ain't no time for fooling around and moaning; there's a gang of murderers in yonder,
	jim	and if we don't hunt up their boat and set her drifting down the river so these fellows can't get away from the wreck there's one of 'em going to be in a bad fix.
	jim	But if we find their boat we can put _all_ of 'em in a bad fix—for the Sheriff 'll get 'em.
	jim	Quick—hurry! I'll hunt the labboard side, you hunt the stabboard. You start at the raft, and— Oh,
	jim	my lordy, lordy! _Raf'?_ Dey ain' no raf' no mo'; she done broke loose en gone I—en here we is!
