	narrator	CHAPTER XXXI. We dasn’t stop again at any town for days and days; kept right along down the river.
	narrator	We was down south in the warm weather now, and a mighty long ways from home.
	narrator	We begun to come to trees with Spanish moss on them, hanging down from the limbs like long,
	narrator	gray beards. It was the first I ever see it growing, and it made the woods look solemn and dismal.
	narrator	So now the frauds reckoned they was out of danger, and they begun to work the villages again.
	narrator	First they done a lecture on temperance; but they didn’t make enough for them both to get drunk on.
	narrator	Then in another village they started a dancing-school; but they didn’t know no more how to dance than a kangaroo does; so the first prance they made the general public jumped in and pranced them out of town.
	narrator	Another time they tried to go at yellocution; but they didn’t yellocute long till the audience got up and give them a solid good cussing,
	narrator	and made them skip out. They tackled missionarying, and mesmerizing, and doctoring, and telling fortunes, and a little of everything; but they couldn’t seem to have no luck.
	narrator	So at last they got just about dead broke, and laid around the raft as she floated along,
	narrator	thinking and thinking, and never saying nothing, by the half a day at a time, and dreadful blue and desperate.
	narrator	And at last they took a change and begun to lay their heads together in the wigwam and talk low and confidential two or three hours at a time.
	narrator	Jim and me got uneasy. We didn’t like the look of it. We judged they was studying up some kind of worse deviltry than ever.
	narrator	We turned it over and over, and at last we made up our minds they was going to break into somebody’s house or store,
	narrator	or was going into the counterfeit-money business, or something. So then we was pretty scared, and made up an agreement that we wouldn’t have nothing in the world to do with such actions,
	narrator	and if we ever got the least show we would give them the cold shake and clear out and leave them behind.
	narrator	Well, early one morning we hid the raft in a good, safe place about two mile below a little bit of a shabby village named Pikesville,
	narrator	and the king he went ashore and told us all to stay hid whilst he went up to town and smelt around to see if anybody had got any wind of the Royal Nonesuch there yet.
	narrator	("House to rob, you _mean_," says I to myself; "and when you get through robbing it you'll come back here and wonder what has become of me and Jim and the raft—and you'll have to take it out in wondering.") And he said if he warn't back by midday the
	narrator	duke and me would know it was all right, and we was to come along. So we stayed where we was.
	narrator	The duke he fretted and sweated around, and was in a mighty sour way. He scolded us for everything,
	narrator	and we couldn't seem to do nothing right; he found fault with every little thing. Something was a-brewing,
	narrator	sure. I was good and glad when midday come and no king; we could have a change,
	narrator	anyway—and maybe a chance for _the_ change on top of it. So me and the duke went up to the village,
	narrator	and hunted around there for the king, and by-and-by we found him in the back room of a little low doggery,
	narrator	very tight, and a lot of loafers bullyragging him for sport, and he a-cussing and a-threatening with all his might,
	narrator	and so tight he couldn't walk, and couldn't do nothing to them. The duke he begun to abuse him for an old fool,
	narrator	and the king begun to sass back, and the minute they was fairly at it I lit out and shook the reefs out of my hind legs,
	narrator	and spun down the river road like a deer, for I see our chance; and I made up my mind that it would be a long day before they ever see me and Jim again.
	narrator	I got down there all out of breath but loaded up with joy, and sung out:
	huck finn	Set her loose, Jim! we're all right now!
	narrator	But there warn't no answer, and nobody come out of the wigwam. Jim was gone! I set up a shout—and then another—and then another one; and run this way and that in the woods,
	narrator	whooping and screeching; but it warn't no use—old Jim was gone. Then I set down and cried; I couldn't help it.
	narrator	But I couldn't set still long. Pretty soon I went out on the road, trying to think what I better do,
	narrator	and I run across a boy walking, and asked him if he'd seen a strange nigger dressed so and so,
	narrator	and he says:
	the boy	Yes.
	huck finn	Whereabouts?
	the boy	Down to Silas Phelps' place, two mile below here. He's a runaway nigger, and they've got him.
	the boy	Was you looking for him?
	huck finn	You bet I ain't! I run across him in the woods about an hour or two ago,
	huck finn	and he said if I hollered he'd cut my livers out—and told me to lay down and stay where I was; and I done it.
	huck finn	Been there ever since; afeard to come out.
	the boy	Well," he says, "you needn't be afeard no more, becuz they've got him. He run off f'm down South,
	the boy	som'ers.
	huck finn	It's a good job they got him.
	the boy	Well, I _reckon!_ There's two hunderd dollars reward on him. It's like picking up money out'n the road.
	huck finn	Yes, it is—and _I_ could a had it if I'd been big enough; I see him _first_.
	huck finn	Who nailed him?
	the boy	It was an old fellow—a stranger—and he sold out his chance in him for forty dollars,
	the boy	becuz he's got to go up the river and can't wait. Think o' that, now! You bet _I'd_ wait,
	the boy	if it was seven year.
	huck finn	That's me, every time,
	narrator	says I. "But maybe his chance ain't worth no more than that, if he'll sell it so cheap.
	narrator	Maybe there's something ain't straight about it."
	the boy	But it _is_, though—straight as a string. I see the handbill myself. It tells all about him,
	the boy	to a dot—paints him like a picture, and tells the plantation he's frum, below Newr_leans_. No-sirree-_bob_,
	the boy	they ain't no trouble 'bout _that_ speculation, you bet you. Say, gimme a chaw tobacker, won't ye?
	narrator	I didn’t have none, so he left. I went to the raft, and set down in the wigwam to think.
	narrator	But I couldn’t come to nothing. I thought till I wore my head sore, but I couldn’t see no way out of the trouble.
	narrator	After all this long journey, and after all we’d done for them scoundrels, here it was all come to nothing,
	narrator	everything all busted up and ruined, because they could have the heart to serve Jim such a trick as that,
	narrator	and make him a slave again all his life, and amongst strangers, too, for forty dirty dollars.
	narrator	Once I said to myself it would be a thousand times better for Jim to be a slave at home where his family was,
	narrator	as long as he’d _got_ to be a slave, and so I’d better write a letter to Tom Sawyer and tell him to tell Miss Watson where he was.
	narrator	But I soon give up that notion for two things: she’d be mad and disgusted at his rascality and ungratefulness for leaving her,
	narrator	and so she’d sell him straight down the river again; and if she didn’t, everybody naturally despises an ungrateful nigger,
	narrator	and they’d make Jim feel it all the time, and so he’d feel ornery and disgraced.
	narrator	And then think of _me!_ It would get all around that Huck Finn helped a nigger to get his freedom; and if I was ever to see anybody from that town again I’d be ready to get down and lick his boots for shame.
	narrator	That’s just the way: a person does a low-down thing, and then he don’t want to take no consequences of it.
	narrator	Thinks as long as he can hide it, it ain’t no disgrace. That was my fix exactly.
	narrator	The more I studied about this, the more my conscience went to grinding me, and the more wicked and low-down and ornery I got to feeling.
	narrator	And at last, when it hit me all of a sudden that here was the plain hand of Providence slapping me in the face and letting me know my wickedness was being watched all the time from up there in heaven,
	narrator	whilst I was stealing a poor old woman’s nigger that hadn’t ever done me no harm,
	narrator	and now was showing me there’s One that’s always on the lookout, and ain’t a-going to allow no such miserable doings to go only just so fur and no further,
	narrator	I most dropped in my tracks I was so scared. Well, I tried the best I could to kinder soften it up somehow for myself by saying I was brung up wicked,
	narrator	and so I warn’t so much to blame; but something inside of me kept saying, "There was the Sunday-school,
	narrator	you could a gone to it; and if you’d a done it they’d a learnt you there that people that acts as I’d been acting about that nigger goes to everlasting fire."
	narrator	It made me shiver. And I about made up my mind to pray, and see if I couldn’t try to quit being the kind of a boy I was and be better.
	narrator	So I kneeled down. But the words wouldn’t come. Why wouldn’t they? It warn’t no use to try and hide it from Him.
	narrator	Nor from _me_, neither. I knowed very well why they wouldn’t come. It was because my heart warn’t right; it was because I warn’t square; it was because I was playing double.
	narrator	I was letting _on_ to give up sin, but away inside of me I was holding on to the biggest one of all.
	narrator	I was trying to make my mouth _say_ I would do the right thing and the clean thing,
	narrator	and go and write to that nigger’s owner and tell where he was; but deep down in me I knowed it was a lie,
	narrator	and He knowed it. You can’t pray a lie—I found that out. So I was full of trouble,
	narrator	full as I could be; and didn’t know what to do. At last I had an idea; and I says,
	narrator	I’ll go and write the letter—and _then_ see if I can pray. Why, it was astonishing,
	narrator	the way I felt as light as a feather right straight off, and my troubles all gone.
	narrator	So I got a piece of paper and a pencil, all glad and excited, and set down and wrote: Miss Watson,
	narrator	your runaway nigger Jim is down here two mile below Pikesville, and Mr. Phelps has got him and he will give him up for the reward if you send.
	narrator	_Huck Finn._ I felt good and all washed clean of sin for the first time I had ever felt so in my life,
	narrator	and I knowed I could pray now. But I didn’t do it straight off, but laid the paper down and set there thinking—thinking how good it was all this happened so,
	narrator	and how near I come to being lost and going to hell. And went on thinking.
	narrator	And got to thinking over our trip down the river; and I see Jim before me all the time: in the day and in the night-time,
	narrator	sometimes moonlight, sometimes storms, and we a-floating along, talking and singing and laughing. But somehow I couldn’t seem to strike no places to harden me against him,
	narrator	but only the other kind. I’d see him standing my watch on top of his’n, ’stead of calling me,
	narrator	so I could go on sleeping; and see him how glad he was when I come back out of the fog; and when I come to him again in the swamp,
	narrator	up there where the feud was; and such-like times; and would always call me honey, and pet me and do everything he could think of for me,
	narrator	and how good he always was; and at last I struck the time I saved him by telling the men we had small-pox aboard,
	narrator	and he was so grateful, and said I was the best friend old Jim ever had in the world,
	narrator	and the _only_ one he’s got now; and then I happened to look around and see that paper.
	narrator	It was a close place. I took it up, and held it in my hand. I was a-trembling,
	narrator	because I’d got to decide, forever, betwixt two things, and I knowed it. I studied a minute,
	narrator	sort of holding my breath, and then says to myself: "All right, then, I’ll _go_ to hell"—and tore it up.
	narrator	It was awful thoughts and awful words, but they was said. And I let them stay said; and never thought no more about reforming.
	narrator	I shoved the whole thing out of my head, and said I would take up wickedness again,
	narrator	which was in my line, being brung up to it, and the other warn’t. And for a starter I would go to work and steal Jim out of slavery again; and if I could think up anything worse,
	narrator	I would do that, too; because as long as I was in, and in for good,
	narrator	I might as well go the whole hog. Then I set to thinking over how to get at it,
	narrator	and turned over some considerable many ways in my mind; and at last fixed up a plan that suited me.
	narrator	So then I took the bearings of a woody island that was down the river a piece,
	narrator	and as soon as it was fairly dark I crept out with my raft and went for it,
	narrator	and hid it there, and then turned in. I slept the night through, and got up before it was light,
	narrator	and had my breakfast, and put on my store clothes, and tied up some others and one thing or another in a bundle,
	narrator	and took the canoe and cleared for shore. I landed below where I judged was Phelps's place,
	narrator	and hid my bundle in the woods, and then filled up the canoe with water, and loaded rocks into her and sunk her where I could find her again when I wanted her,
	narrator	about a quarter of a mile below a little steam sawmill that was on the bank.
	narrator	Then I struck up the road, and when I passed the mill I see a sign on it,
	narrator	"Phelps's Sawmill," and when I come to the farm-houses, two or three hundred yards further along,
	narrator	I kept my eyes peeled, but didn't see nobody around, though it was good daylight now.
	narrator	But I didn't mind, because I didn't want to see nobody just yet—I only wanted to get the lay of the land.
	narrator	According to my plan, I was going to turn up there from the village, not from below.
	narrator	So I just took a look, and shoved along, straight for town. Well, the very first man I see when I got there was the duke.
	narrator	He was sticking up a bill for the Royal Nonesuch—three-night performance—like that other time. They had the cheek,
	narrator	them frauds! I was right on him before I could shirk.
	the duke	Hel-lo! Where'd you come from? Then he says, kind of glad and eager, "Where's the raft?—got her in a good place?
	huck finn	Why, that's just what I was going to ask your grace.
	the duke	Then he didn't look so joyful, and says: "What was your idea for asking me?
	huck finn	Well, I says, "when I see the king in that doggery yesterday I says to myself,
	huck finn	we can't get him home for hours, till he's soberer; so I went a-loafing around town to put in the time and wait.
	huck finn	A man up and offered me ten cents to help him pull a skiff over the river and back to fetch a sheep,
	huck finn	and so I went along; but when we was dragging him to the boat, and the man left me a-holt of the rope and went behind him to shove him along,
	huck finn	he was too strong for me and jerked loose and run, and we after him. We didn't have no dog,
	huck finn	and so we had to chase him all over the country till we tired him out.
	huck finn	We never got him till dark; then we fetched him over, and I started down for the raft.
	huck finn	When I got there and see it was gone, I says to myself, 'they've got into trouble and had to leave; and they've took my nigger,
	huck finn	which is the only nigger I've got in the world, and now I'm in a strange country,
	huck finn	and ain't got no property no more, nor nothing, and no way to make my living;'
	huck finn	so I set down and cried. I slept in the woods all night. But what did become of the raft,
	huck finn	then?—and Jim—poor Jim!
	narrator	Blamed if I know—that is, what's become of the raft. That old fool had made a trade and got forty dollars,
	narrator	and when we found him in the doggery the loafers had matched half-dollars with him and got every cent but what he'd spent for whisky; and when I got him home late last night and found the raft gone,
	narrator	we said, 'That little rascal has stole our raft and shook us, and run off down the river.'
	narrator	I wouldn't shake my nigger, would I?—the only nigger I had in the world, and the only property.
	narrator	We never thought of that. Fact is, I reckon we'd come to consider him our nigger; yes,
	narrator	we did consider him so—goodness knows we had trouble enough for him. So when we see the raft was gone and we flat broke,
	narrator	there warn't anything for it but to try the Royal Nonesuch another shake. And I've pegged along ever since,
	narrator	dry as a powder-horn. Where's that ten cents? Give it here. I had considerable money, so I give him ten cents,
	narrator	but begged him to spend it for something to eat, and give me some, because it was all the money I had,
	narrator	and I hadn't had nothing to eat since yesterday. He never said nothing. The next minute he whirls on me and says: Do you reckon that nigger would blow on us?
	narrator	We'd skin him if he done that! How can he blow? Hain't he run off? No!
	narrator	That old fool sold him, and never divided with me, and the money's gone. Sold him?
	huck finn	I says, and begun to cry; why, he was _my_ nigger, and that was my money.
	huck finn	Where is he?—I want my nigger.
	the duke	Well, you can’t _get_ your nigger, that’s all—so dry up your blubbering. Looky here—do you think _you’d_ venture to blow on us?
	the duke	Blamed if I think I'd trust you. Why, if you _was_ to blow on us—
	narrator	He stopped, but I never see the duke look so ugly out of his eyes before.
	huck finn	I don't want to blow on nobody; and I ain't got no time to blow, nohow.
	huck finn	I got to turn out and find my nigger.
	the duke	He looked kinder bothered, and stood there with his bills fluttering on his arm, thinking, and wrinkling up his forehead.
	the duke	At last he says: I'll tell you something. We got to be here three days. If you'll promise you won't blow,
	the duke	and won't let the nigger blow, I'll tell you where to find him.
	huck finn	So I promised, and he says:
	the duke	A farmer by the name of Silas Ph—
	narrator	and then he stopped. You see, he started to tell me the truth; but when he stopped that way,
	narrator	and begun to study and think again, I reckoned he was changing his mind. And so he was.
	narrator	He wouldn't trust me; he wanted to make sure of having me out of the way the whole three days.
	narrator	So pretty soon he says:
	the duke	The man that bought him is named Abram Foster—Abram G. Foster—and he lives forty mile back here in the country,
	the duke	on the road to Lafayette.
	narrator	All right,
	huck finn	I says, "I can walk it in three days. And I'll start this very afternoon.
	narrator	No you wont, youll start now; and dont you lose any time about it, neither, nor do any gabbling by the way.
	narrator	Just keep a tight tongue in your head and move right along, and then you wont get into trouble with us,
	narrator	d ye hear? That was the order I wanted, and that was the one I played for.
	narrator	I wanted to be left free to work my plans. "So clear out," he says; "and you can tell Mr. Foster whatever you want to."
	narrator	"Maybe you can get him to believe that Jim _is_ your nigger—some idiots don't require documents—leastways I've heard there's such down South here."
	narrator	"And when you tell him the handbill and the reward's bogus, maybe he'll believe you when you explain to him what the idea was for getting 'em out."
	narrator	"Go 'long now, and tell him anything you want to; but mind you don't work your jaw any _between_ here and there."
	narrator	So I left, and struck for the back country. I didn't look around, but I kinda felt like he was watching me.
	narrator	But I knowed I could tire him out at that. I went straight out in the country as much as a mile before I stopped; then I doubled back through the woods towards Phelps'.
	narrator	I reckoned I better start in on my plan straight off without fooling around, because I wanted to stop Jim's mouth till these fellows could get away.
	narrator	I didn't want no trouble with their kind. I'd seen all I wanted to of them,
	narrator	and wanted to get entirely shut of them."
