	narrator	The doctor was an old man; a very nice, kind-looking old man when I got him up.
	tom	I told him me and my brother was over on Spanish Island hunting yesterday afternoon, and camped on a piece of a raft we found,
	tom	and about midnight he must a kicked his gun in his dreams, for it went off and shot him in the leg,
	tom	and we wanted him to go over there and fix it and not say nothing about it,
	tom	nor let anybody know, because we wanted to come home this evening and surprise the folks.
	the doctor	Who is your folks?
	tom	The Phelpses, down yonder.
	the doctor	Oh,
	narrator	and after a minute, he says:
	the doctor	How'd you say he got shot?
	tom	He had a dream, and it shot him.
	the doctor	Singular dream,
	narrator	he says. So he lit up his lantern, and got his saddle-bags, and we started. But when he sees the canoe he didn’t like the look of her—said she was big enough for one,
	narrator	but didn’t look pretty safe for two.
	tom	Oh, you needn't be afeard, sir, she carried the three of us easy enough.
	the doctor	What three?
	tom	Why, me and Sid, and—and—and _the guns;_ that's what I mean.
	the doctor	Oh,
	narrator	he says. But he put his foot on the gunnel and rocked her, and shook his head,
	narrator	and said he reckoned he'd look around for a bigger one. But they was all locked and chained; so he took my canoe,
	narrator	and said for me to wait till he come back, or I could hunt around further,
	narrator	or maybe I better go down home and get them ready for the surprise if I wanted to.
	tom	But I said I didn't; so I told him just how to find the raft, and then he started.
	narrator	I struck an idea pretty soon.
	tom	I says to myself, spos'n he can't fix that leg just in three shakes of a sheep's tail,
	tom	as the saying is? spos'n it takes him three or four days? What are we going to do?—lay around there till he lets the cat out of the bag?
	tom	No, sir; I know what _I'll_ do. I'll wait, and when he comes back if he says he's got to go any more I'll get down there,
	tom	too, if I swim; and we'll take and tie him, and keep him, and shove out down the river; and when Tom's done with him we'll give him what it's worth,
	tom	or all we got, and then let him get ashore.
	narrator	So then I crept into a lumber-pile to get some sleep; and next time I waked up the sun was away up over my head!
	narrator	I shot out and went for the doctor's house, but they told me he'd gone away in the night some time or other,
	narrator	and warn't back yet. Well, thinks I, that looks powerful bad for Tom, and I'll dig out for the island right off.
	narrator	So away I shoved, and turned the corner, and nearly rammed my head into Uncle Silas's stomach!
	uncle silas	Why, _Tom!_ Where you been all this time, you rascal?
	tom	_I_ hain't been nowheres, only just hunting for the runaway nigger—me and Sid.
	uncle silas	Why, where ever did you go? Your aunt's been mighty uneasy.
	tom	She needn't, because we was all right. We followed the men and the dogs, but they outrun us,
	tom	and we lost them; but we thought we heard them on the water, so we got a canoe and took out after them and crossed over,
	tom	but couldn't find nothing of them; so we cruised along up-shore till we got kind of tired and beat out; and tied up the canoe and went to sleep,
	tom	and never waked up till about an hour ago; then we paddled over here to hear the news,
	tom	and Sid's at the post-office to see what he can hear, and I'm a-branching out to get something to eat for us,
	tom	and then we're going home.
	narrator	So then we went to the post-office to get "Sid"; but just as I suspicioned, he warn't there; so the old man he got a letter out of the office,
	narrator	and we waited a while longer, but Sid didn't come; so the old man said, come along,
	narrator	let Sid foot it home, or canoe it, when he got done fooling around—but we would ride.
	tom	I couldn't get him to let me stay and wait for Sid; and he said there warn't no use in it,
	tom	and I must come along, and let Aunt Sally see we was all right.
	narrator	When we got home Aunt Sally was that glad to see me she laughed and cried both,
	narrator	and hugged me, and give me one of them lickings of hern that don't amount to shucks,
	narrator	and said she'd serve Sid the same when he come. And the place was plum full of farmers and farmers'
	narrator	wives, to dinner; and such another clack a body never heard. Old Mrs. Hotchkiss was the worst; her tongue was a-going all the time.
	old mrs. hotchkiss	Well, Sister Phelps, I've ransacked that-air cabin over, an' I b'lieve the nigger was crazy. I says to Sister Damrell—didn't I,
	old mrs. hotchkiss	Sister Damrell? s'I, he's crazy, s'I—them's the very words I said. You all hearn me: he's crazy,
	old mrs. hotchkiss	s'I; everything shows it, s'I. Look at that-air grindstone, s'I; want to tell _me_'t any cretur 't's in his right mind 's a goin'
	old mrs. hotchkiss	to scrabble all them crazy things onto a grindstone, s'I? Here sich 'n' sich a person busted his heart; 'n'
	old mrs. hotchkiss	here so 'n' so pegged along for thirty-seven year, 'n' all that—natcherl son o' Louis somebody,
	old mrs. hotchkiss	'n' sich everlast'n rubbage. He's plumb crazy, s'I; it's what I says in the fust place,
	old mrs. hotchkiss	it's what I says in the middle, 'n' it's what I says last 'n' all the time—the nigger's crazy—crazy 's Nebokoodneezer,
	old mrs. hotchkiss	s'I.
	old mrs. damrell	An' look at that-air ladder made out'n rags, Sister Hotchkiss, what in the name o' goodness _could_ he ever want of—
	old mrs. hotchkiss	The very words I was a-sayin' no longer ago th'n this minute to Sister Utterback, 'n'
	old mrs. hotchkiss	she'll tell you so herself. Sh-she, look at that-air rag ladder, sh-she; 'n' s'I, yes, _look_ at it,
	old mrs. hotchkiss	s'I—what _could_ he a-wanted of it, s'I. Sh-she, Sister Hotchkiss, sh-she—
	narrator	But how in the nation'd they ever _git_ that grindstone _in_ there, _any_way? 'n' who dug that-air _hole?_ 'n'
	narrator	who—
	old mrs. hotchkiss	My very _words_, Brer Penrod! I was a-sayin'—pass that-air sasser o' m'lasses, won't ye?—I was a-sayin'
	old mrs. hotchkiss	to Sister Dunlap, jist this minute, how _did_ they git that grindstone in there, s'I. Without _help_,
	old mrs. hotchkiss	mind you—'thout _help! Thar's_ wher 'tis. Don't tell _me_, s'I; there _wuz_ help, s'I; 'n' ther'
	old mrs. hotchkiss	wuz a _plenty_ help, too, s'I; ther's ben a _dozen_ a-helpin' that nigger, 'n' I lay I'd skin every last nigger on this place but _I'd_ find out who done it,
	old mrs. hotchkiss	s'I; 'n' moreover, s'I—
	brer hightower	A dozen says you!—forty couldn't a done every thing that's been done.
	narrator	Look at them case-knife saws and things, how tedious they've been; look at that bed-leg sawed off with 'm,
	narrator	a week's work for six men; look at that nigger made out'n straw on the bed; and look at—
	sister phelps	You may well say it, Brer Hightower! It's jist as I was a-sayin' to Brer Phelps,
	sister phelps	his own self.
	brer phelps	S'e, what do you think of it, Sister Hotchkiss, s'e?
	sister hotchkiss	Think o' what, Brer Phelps, s'I? Think o' that bed-leg sawed off that a way, s'e?
	brer phelps	Think of it, s'I? I lay it never sawed itself off, s'I—somebody sawed it, s'I; that's my opinion,
	brer phelps	take it or leave it, it mayn't be no 'count, s'I, but sich as 't is,
	brer phelps	it's my opinion, s'I, 'n' if any body k'n start a better one, s'I, let him do it,
	brer phelps	s'I, that's all.
	sister hotchkiss	I says to Sister Dunlap, s'I—
	brer hightower	Why, dog my cats, they must a ben a house-full o' niggers in there every night for four weeks to a done all that work,
	brer hightower	Sister Phelps.
	sister phelps	Look at that shirt—every last inch of it kivered over with secret African writ'n done with blood!
	sister phelps	Must a ben a raft uv 'm at it right along, all the time, amost.
	brer hightower	Why, I'd give two dollars to have it read to me; 'n' as for the niggers that wrote it,
	brer hightower	I 'low I'd take 'n' lash 'm t'll—
	sister ridgeway	People to help him, Brother Marples! Well, I reckon you'd think so if you'd a been in this house for a while back.
	sister ridgeway	Why, they've stole everything they could lay their hands on—and we a-watching all the time, mind you.
	sister ridgeway	They stole that shirt right off o' the line! and as for that sheet they made the rag ladder out of,
	sister ridgeway	ther' ain't no telling how many times they didn't steal that; and flour, and candles, and candlesticks,
	sister ridgeway	and spoons, and the old warming-pan, and most a thousand things that I disremember now, and my new calico dress; and me and Silas and my Sid and Tom on the constant watch day and night,
	sister ridgeway	as I was a-telling you, and not a one of us could catch hide nor hair nor sight nor sound of them; and here at the last minute,
	sister ridgeway	lo and behold you, they slides right in under our noses and fools us, and not only fools us but the Injun Territory robbers too,
	sister ridgeway	and actuly gets away with that nigger safe and sound, and that with sixteen men and twenty-two dogs right on their very heels at that very time!
	sister ridgeway	I tell you, it just bangs anything I ever heard of. Why, sperits couldn't a done better and been no smarter.
	sister ridgeway	And I reckon they must a been sperits—because, you know our dogs, and ther' ain't no better; well,
	sister ridgeway	them dogs never even got on the track of 'm once! You explain that to me if you can!—any of you!
	brer penrod	Well, it does beat—
	sister damrell	Laws alive, I never—
	brer phelps	So help me, I wouldn't a be—
	sister utterback	House-thieves as well as—
	old mrs. hotchkiss	Goodnessgracioussakes, I'd a ben afeard to live in sich a—
	sister ridgeway	Fraid to _live!_—why, I was that scared I dasn't hardly go to bed, or get up,
	sister ridgeway	or lay down, or _set_ down, Sister Ridgeway. Why, they'd steal the very—why, goodness sakes, you can guess what kind of a fluster _I_ was in by the time midnight come last night.
	sister ridgeway	I hope to gracious if I warn't afraid they'd steal some o' the family! I was just to that pass I didn't have no reasoning faculties no more.
	sister ridgeway	It looks foolish enough _now_, in the daytime; but I says to myself, there's my two poor boys asleep,
	sister ridgeway	'way up stairs in that lonesome room, and I declare to goodness I was that uneasy 't I crep'
	sister ridgeway	up there and locked 'em in! I _did_. And anybody would. Because, you know, when you get scared that way,
	sister ridgeway	and it keeps running on, and getting worse and worse all the time, and your wits gets to addling,
	sister ridgeway	and you get to doing all sorts o' wild things, and by-and-by you think to yourself,
	sister ridgeway	spos'n _I_ was a boy, and was away up there, and the door ain't locked, and you—
	narrator	She stopped, looking kind of wondering, and then she turned her head around slow, and when her eye lit on me—I got up and took a walk.
	narrator	Says I to myself, I can explain better how we come to not be in that room this morning if I go out to one side and study over it a little.
	narrator	So I done it. But I dasn't go fur, or she'd a sent for me. And when it was late in the day the people all went,
	narrator	and then I come in and told her the noise and shooting waked up me and "Sid,"
	narrator	and the door was locked, and we wanted to see the fun, so we went down the lightning-rod,
	narrator	and both of us got hurt a little, and we didn't never want to try _that_ no more.
	narrator	And then I went on and told her all what I told Uncle Silas before; and then she said she'd forgive us,
	narrator	and maybe it was all right enough anyway, and about what a body might expect of boys,
	narrator	for all boys was a pretty harum-scarum lot as fur as she could see; and so,
	narrator	as long as no harm hadn't come of it, she judged she better put in her time being grateful we was alive and well and she had us still,
	narrator	stead of fretting over what was past and done. So then she kissed me, and patted me on the head,
	narrator	and dropped into a kind of a brown study; and pretty soon jumps up, and says:
	aunt sally	Why, lawsamercy, it's almost night, and Sid not come yet! What _has_ become of that boy?
	tom	I'll run right up to town and get him,
	aunt sally	No you won't,
	tom	You'll stay right wher' you are; _one's_ enough to be lost at a time. If he ain't here to supper,
	tom	your uncle 'll go.
	narrator	Well, he warn't there to supper; so right after supper uncle went. He come back about ten a little bit uneasy; hadn't run across Tom's track.
	aunt sally	I'm a good _deal_ uneasy;
	uncle silas	there warn't no occasion to be—boys will be boys, he said, and you'll see this one turn up in the morning all sound and right.
	aunt sally	So she had to be satisfied. But she said she'd set up for him a while anyway,
	aunt sally	and keep a light burning so he could see it.
	narrator	And then when I went up to bed she come up with me and fetched her candle,
	narrator	and tucked me in, and mothered me so good I felt mean, and like I couldn't look her in the face and she set down on the bed and talked with me a long time,
	narrator	and said what a splendid boy Sid was, and didn't seem to want to ever stop talking about him and kept asking me every now and then if I reckoned he could a got lost,
	narrator	or hurt, or maybe drownded, and might be laying at this minute somewheres suffering or dead,
	narrator	and she not by him to help him and so the tears would drip down silent,
	narrator	and I would tell her that Sid was all right, and would be home in the morning,
	narrator	sure and she would squeeze my hand, or maybe kiss me, and tell me to say it again,
	narrator	and keep on saying it, because it done her good, and she was in so much trouble And when she was going away she looked down in my eyes so steady and gentle,
	narrator	and says
	aunt sally	The door ain't going to be locked, Tom, and there's the window and the rod; but you'll be good,
	aunt sally	won't you? And you won't go? For my sake.
	narrator	Laws knows I wanted to go bad enough to see about Tom, and was all intending to go; but after that I wouldn't a went,
	narrator	not for kingdoms But she was on my mind and Tom was on my mind, so I slept very restless And twice I went down the rod away in the night,
	narrator	and slipped around front, and see her setting there by her candle in the window with her eyes towards the road and the tears in them and I wished I could do something for her,
	narrator	but I couldn't, only to swear that I wouldn't never do nothing to grieve her any more And the third time I waked up at dawn,
	narrator	and slid down, and she was there yet, and her candle was most out, and her old gray head was resting on her hand,
	narrator	and she was asleep
