	narrator	- Jim (*male): A enslaved man who is being held captive and must create an inscription and coat of arms for his prison cell.
	narrator	He is portrayed as superstitious, afraid of animals like snakes and rats, and reluctant to follow Tom's elaborate prison customs.
	narrator	He works on making pens with a brickbat and is tasked with carving inscriptions into a grindstone.
	narrator	- Tom (*male): A mischievous boy who is planning elaborate prison customs for Jim. He insists on proper inscriptions,
	narrator	coat of arms, and pets for the prisoner, despite Jim's objections. He is imaginative but impatient with Jim's lack of enthusiasm and believes he knows what's best for the situation.
	narrator	- Huck (*male): A boy who works alongside Tom and Jim on the prison preparations. He is pragmatic,
	narrator	often questioning Tom's elaborate plans and expressing concern for Jim's well-being. - Lady Jane Grey (*female): A historical figure mentioned by Tom as an example of a prisoner who left inscriptions behind.
	narrator	She was the Queen of England for nine days in 1553. - Gilford Dudley (*male): A historical figure mentioned by Tom as an example of a prisoner who left inscriptions behind.
	narrator	He was the Duke of Northumberland and executed in 1553. - Northumberland (*male): An alias for the Duke of Northumberland,
	narrator	a historical figure mentioned by Tom as an example of a prisoner who left inscriptions behind.
	narrator	CHAPTER XXXVIII. Making them pens was a distressid tough job, and so was the saw; and Jim allowed the inscription was going to be the toughest of all.
	narrator	That's the one which the prisoner has to scrabble on the wall. But he had to have it; Tom said he'd _got_ to; there warn't no case of a state prisoner not scrabbling his inscription to leave behind,
	narrator	and his coat of arms.
	tom	Look at Lady Jane Grey; look at Gilford Dudley; look at old Northumberland! Why, Huck, s'pose it _is_ considerble trouble?—what you going to do?—how you going to get around it?
	tom	Jim's _got_ to do his inscription and coat of arms. They all do.
	jim	Why, Mars Tom, I hain't got no coat o' arm; I hain't got nuffn but dish yer ole shirt,
	jim	en you knows I got to keep de journal on dat.
	tom	Oh, you don't understand, Jim; a coat of arms is very different.
	narrator	Well, I says, "Jim's right, anyway, when he says he ain't got no coat of arms,
	narrator	because he hain't."
	tom	I reckon _I_ knowed that, but you bet he'll have one before he goes out of this—because he's going out _right_,
	tom	and there ain't going to be no flaws in his record.
	narrator	So whilst me and Jim filed away at the pens on a brickbat apiece, Jim a-making his'n out of the brass and I making mine out of the spoon,
	narrator	Tom set to work to think out the coat of arms. By-and-by he said he'd struck so many good ones he didn't hardly know which to take,
	narrator	but there was one which he reckoned he'd decide on. He says:
	tom	On the scutcheon we'll have a bend _or_ in the dexter base, a saltire _murrey_ in the fess,
	tom	with a dog, couchant, for common charge, and under his foot a chain embattled, for slavery,
	tom	with a chevron _vert_ in a chief engrailed, and three invected lines on a field _azure_,
	tom	with the nombril points rampant on a dancette indented; crest, a runaway nigger, _sable_, with his bundle over his shoulder on a bar sinister; and a couple of gules for supporters,
	tom	which is you and me; motto, _Maggiore fretta, minore atto._ Got it out of a book—means the more haste,
	tom	the less speed.
	huck	Geewhillikins, but what does the rest of it mean?
	tom	We ain't got no time to bother over that, we got to dig in like all git-out.
	narrator	Well, I says, "what's _some_ of it? What's a fess?"
	tom	A fess—a fess is—_you_ don't need to know what a fess is. I'll show him how to make it when he gets to it.
	huck	Shucks, Tom, I think you might tell a person. What's a bar sinister?
	tom	Oh, _I_ don't know. But he's got to have it. All the nobility does.
	narrator	That was just his way. If it didn't suit him to explain a thing to you,
	narrator	he wouldn't do it. You might pump at him a week, it wouldn't make no difference.
	narrator	He'd got all that coat of arms business fixed, so now he started in to finish up the rest of that part of the work,
	narrator	which was to plan out a mournful inscription—said Jim got to have one, like they all done.
	narrator	He made up a lot, and wrote them out on a paper, and read them off,
	narrator	so:
	tom	1. _Here a captive heart busted._ 2. _Here a poor prisoner, forsook by the world and friends,
	tom	fretted out his sorrowful life._ 3. _Here a lonely heart broke, and a worn spirit went to its rest,
	tom	after thirty-seven years of solitary captivity._ 4. _Here, homeless and friendless, after thirty-seven years of bitter captivity,
	tom	perished a noble stranger, natural son of Louis XIV._
	narrator	Tom's voice trembled whilst he was reading them, and he most broke down. When he got done he couldn't no way make up his mind which one for Jim to scrabble on to the wall,
	narrator	they was all so good; but at last he allowed he would let him scrabble them all on.
	narrator	Jim said it would take him a year to scrabble such a lot of truck on to the logs with a nail,
	narrator	and he didn't know how to make letters, besides; but Tom said he would block them out for him,
	narrator	and then he wouldn't have nothing to do but just follow the lines. Then pretty soon he says:
	tom	Come to think, the logs ain't a-going to do; they don't have log walls in a dungeon: we got to dig the inscriptions into a rock.
	tom	We'll fetch a rock.
	jim	The rock is worse than the logs; he said it would take him such a pison long time to dig them into a rock he wouldn't ever get out.
	tom	But Tom said he would let me help him do it. Then he took a look to see how me and Jim was getting along with the pens.
	tom	It was most pesky tedious hard work and slow, and didn't give my hands no show to get well of the sores,
	tom	and we didn't seem to make no headway, hardly; so Tom says: I know how to fix it.
	tom	We got to have a rock for the coat of arms and mournful inscriptions, and we can kill two birds with that same rock.
	tom	There's a gaudy big grindstone down at the mill, and we'll smouch it, and carve the things on it,
	tom	and file out the pens and the saw on it, too.
	narrator	It warn't no slouch of an idea; and it warn't no slouch of a grindstone nuther; but we allowed we'd tackle it.
	narrator	It warn't quite midnight yet, so we cleared out for the mill, leaving Jim at work.
	narrator	We smouched the grindstone, and set out to roll her home, but it was a most nation tough job.
	narrator	Sometimes, do what we could, we couldn't keep her from falling over, and she come mighty near mashing us every time.
	narrator	Tom said she was going to get one of us, sure, before we got through. We got her half way; and then we was plumb played out,
	narrator	and most drownded with sweat. We see it warn't no use; we got to go and fetch Jim.
	narrator	So he raised up his bed and slid the chain off of the bed-leg, and wrapt it round and round his neck,
	narrator	and we crawled out through our hole and down there, and Jim and me laid into that grindstone and walked her along like nothing; and Tom superintended.
	narrator	He could out-superintend any boy I ever see. He knowed how to do everything. Our hole was pretty big,
	narrator	but it warn’t big enough to get the grindstone through; but Jim he took the pick and soon made it big enough.
	tom	Then Tom marked out them things on it with the nail, and set Jim to work on them,
	tom	with the nail for a chisel and an iron bolt from the rubbage in the lean-to for a hammer,
	tom	and told him to work till the rest of his candle quit on him, and then he could go to bed,
	tom	and hide the grindstone under his straw tick and sleep on it.
	narrator	Then we helped him fix his chain back on the bed-leg, and was ready for bed ourselves.
	tom	But Tom thought of something, and says: You got any spiders in here, Jim?
	jim	No, sah, thanks to goodness I hain’t, Mars Tom.
	tom	All right, we’ll get you some.
	jim	But bless you, honey, I doan’ _want_ none. I’s afeard un um. I jis’ ’s soon have rattlesnakes aroun’.
	tom	Tom thought a minute or two, and says: It’s a good idea. And I reckon it’s been done.
	tom	It _must_ a been done; it stands to reason. Yes, it’s a prime good idea. Where could you keep it?
	jim	Keep what, Mars Tom?
	tom	Why, a rattlesnake.
	jim	De goodness gracious alive, Mars Tom! Why, if dey was a rattlesnake to come in heah I’d take en bust right out thoo dat log wall,
	jim	I would, wid my head.
	tom	Why, Jim, you wouldn’t be afraid of it after a little. You could tame it.
	jim	_Tame_ it!
	tom	Yes—easy enough. Every animal is grateful for kindness and petting, and they wouldn’t _think_ of hurting a person that pets them.
	tom	Any book will tell you that. You try—that’s all I ask; just try for two or three days.
	tom	Why, you can get him so, in a little while, that he’ll love you; and sleep with you; and won’t stay away from you a minute; and will let you wrap him round your neck and put his head in your mouth.
	jim	_Please_, Mars Tom—_doan_’ talk so! I can’t _stan_’ it! He’d _let_ me shove his head in my mouf—fer a favor,
	jim	hain’t it? I lay he’d wait a pow’ful long time ’fo’ I _ast_ him. En mo’
	jim	en dat, I doan’ _want_ him to sleep wid me.
	tom	Jim, don’t act so foolish. A prisoner’s _got_ to have some kind of a dumb pet,
	tom	and if a rattlesnake hain’t ever been tried, why, there’s more glory to be gained in your being the first to ever try it than any other way you could ever think of to save your life.
	jim	Why, Mars Tom, I doan’ _want_ no sich glory. Snake take ’n bite Jim’s chin off,
	jim	den _whah_ is de glory? No, sah, I doan’ want no sich doin’s.
	tom	Blame it, can’t you _try?_ I only _want_ you to try—you needn’t keep it up if it don’t work.
	jim	But de trouble all _done_ ef de snake bite me while I’s a tryin’ him. Mars Tom,
	jim	I’s willin’ to tackle mos’ anything ’at ain’t onreasonable, but ef you en Huck fetches a rattlesnake in heah for me to tame,
	jim	I’s gwyne to _leave_, dat’s _shore_.
	tom	Well, then, let it go, let it go, if you’re so bull-headed about it. We can get you some garter-snakes,
	tom	and you can tie some buttons on their tails, and let on they’re rattlesnakes, and I reckon that’ll have to do.
	jim	I k’n stan’ _dem_, Mars Tom, but blame’ ’f I couldn’ get along widout um, I tell you dat.
	jim	I never knowed b’fo’ ’t was so much bother and trouble to be a prisoner.
	tom	Well, it _always_ is when it’s done right. You got any rats around here?
	jim	No, sah, I hain’t seed none.
	tom	Well, we’ll get you some rats.
	jim	Why, Mars Tom, I doan’ _want_ no rats. Dey’s de dadblamedest creturs to ’sturb a body,
	jim	en rustle roun’ over ’im, en bite his feet, when he’s tryin’ to sleep, I ever see.
	jim	No, sah, gimme g’yarter-snakes, ’f I’s got to have ’m, but doan’ gimme no rats; I hain’
	jim	got no use f’r um, skasely.
	tom	But, Jim, you _got_ to have ’em—they all do. So don’t make no more fuss about it.
	tom	Prisoners ain’t ever without rats. There ain’t no instance of it. And they train them, and pet them,
	tom	and learn them tricks, and they get to be as sociable as flies. But you got to play music to them.
	tom	You got anything to play music on?
	jim	I ain’ got nuffn but a coase comb en a piece o’ paper, en a juice-harp; but I reck’n dey wouldn’t take no stock in a juice-harp.
	tom	Yes they would. _They_ don’t care what kind of music ’tis. A jews-harp’s plenty good enough for a rat.
	tom	All animals like music—in a prison they dote on it. Specially, painful music; and you can’t get no other kind out of a jews-harp.
	tom	It always interests them; they come out to see what’s the matter with you. Yes, you’re all right; you’re fixed very well.
	tom	You want to set on your bed nights before you go to sleep, and early in the mornings,
	tom	and play your jews-harp; play ‘The Last Link is Broken’—that’s the thing that’ll scoop a rat quicker ’n anything else; and when you’ve played about two minutes you’ll see all the rats,
	tom	and the snakes, and spiders, and things begin to feel worried about you, and come. And they’ll just fairly swarm over you,
	tom	and have a noble good time.
	jim	Yes, _dey_ will, I reck’n, Mars Tom, but what kine er time is _Jim_ havin’? Blest if I kin see de pint.
	jim	But I’ll do it ef I got to. I reck’n I better keep de animals satisfied,
	jim	en not have no trouble in de house.
	tom	Tom waited to think it over, and see if there wasn’t nothing else; and pretty soon he says: Oh,
	tom	there’s one thing I forgot. Could you raise a flower here, do you reckon?
	jim	I doan know but maybe I could, Mars Tom; but it’s tolable dark in heah, en I ain’
	jim	got no use f’r no flower, nohow, en she’d be a pow’ful sight o’ trouble.
	tom	Well, you try it, anyway. Some other prisoners has done it.
	jim	One er dem big cat-tail-lookin’ mullen-stalks would grow in heah, Mars Tom, I reck’n, but she wouldn’t be wuth half de trouble she’d coss.
	tom	Don’t you believe it. We’ll fetch you a little one and you plant it in the corner over there,
	tom	and raise it. And don’t call it mullen, call it Pitchiola—that’s its right name when it’s in a prison.
	tom	And you want to water it with your tears.
	jim	Why, I got plenty spring water, Mars Tom.
	tom	You don’t _want_ spring water; you want to water it with your tears. It’s the way they always do.
	jim	Why, Mars Tom, I lay I kin raise one er dem mullen-stalks twyste wid spring water whiles another man's a _start'n_ one wid tears.
	tom	That ain't the idea. You _got_ to do it with tears.
	jim	She'll die on my han's, Mars Tom, she sholy will; kase I doan' skasely ever cry.
	tom	So Tom was stumped. But he studied it over, and then said Jim would have to worry along the best he could with an onion.
	tom	He promised he would go to the nigger cabins and drop one, private, in Jim's coffee-pot,
	tom	in the morning.
	jim	Jim said he would "jis' 's soon have tobacker in his coffee;" and found so much fault with it,
	jim	and with the work and bother of raising the mullen, and jews-harping the rats, and petting and flattering up the snakes and spiders and things,
	jim	on top of all the other work he had to do on pens, and inscriptions, and journals,
	jim	and things,
	tom	which made it more trouble and worry and responsibility to be a prisoner than anything he ever undertook,
	tom	that Tom most lost all patience with him; and said he was just loadened down with more gaudier chances than a prisoner ever had in the world to make a name for himself,
	tom	and yet he didn't know enough to appreciate them, and they was just about wasted on him.
	jim	So Jim he was sorry, and said he wouldn't behave so no more,
	narrator	and then me and Tom shoved for bed.
