	narrator	After breakfast I wanted to talk about the dead man and guess out how he come to be killed,
	narrator	but Jim didn't want to.
	jim	It would fetch bad luck; and besides, he said, he might come and ha'nt us; he said a man that warn't buried was more likely to go a-ha'nting around than one that was planted and comfortable.
	narrator	That sounded pretty reasonable, so I didn't say no more; but I couldn't keep from studying over it and wishing I knowed who shot the man,
	narrator	and what they done it for. We rummaged the clothes we'd got, and found eight dollars in silver sewed up in the lining of an old blanket overcoat.
	jim	He reckoned the people in that house stole the coat, because if they'd a knowed the money was there they wouldn't a left it.
	narrator	I said I reckoned they killed him, too; but Jim didn't want to talk about that.
	narrator	I says: "Now you think it's bad luck; but what did you say when I fetched in the snake-skin that I found on the top of the ridge day before yesterday?
	narrator	You said it was the worst bad luck in the world to touch a snake-skin with my hands.
	narrator	Well, here's your bad luck! We've raked in all this truck and eight dollars besides. I wish we could have some bad luck like this every day,
	narrator	Jim."
	jim	Never you mind, honey, never you mind. Don't you git too peart. It's a-comin'. Mind I tell you,
	jim	it's a-comin'.
	narrator	It did come, too. It was a Tuesday that we had that talk. Well, after dinner Friday we was laying around in the grass at the upper end of the ridge,
	narrator	and got out of tobacco. I went to the cavern to get some, and found a rattlesnake in there.
	narrator	I killed him, and curled him up on the foot of Jim's blanket, ever so natural,
	narrator	thinking there'd be some fun when Jim found him there. Well, by night I forgot all about the snake,
	narrator	and when Jim flung himself down on the blanket while I struck a light the snake's mate was there,
	narrator	and bit him. He jumped up yelling, and the first thing the light showed was the varmint curled up and ready for another spring.
	narrator	I laid him out in a second with a stick, and Jim grabbed pap's whisky-jug and begun to pour it down.
	narrator	He was barefooted, and the snake bit him right on the heel. That all comes of my being such a fool as to not remember that wherever you leave a dead snake its mate always comes there and curls around it.
	jim	Jim told me to chop off the snake's head and throw it away, and then skin the body and roast a piece of it.
	narrator	I done it, and he eat it and said it would help cure him.
	jim	He made me take off the rattles and tie them around his wrist, too. He said that that would help.
	narrator	Then I slid out quiet and throwed the snakes clear away amongst the bushes; for I warn't going to let Jim find out it was all my fault,
	narrator	not if I could help it. Jim sucked and sucked at the jug, and now and then he got out of his head and pitched around and yelled; but every time he come to himself he went to sucking at the jug again.
	narrator	His foot swelled up pretty big, and so did his leg; but by-and-by the drunk begun to come,
	narrator	and so I judged he was all right; but I'd druther been bit with a snake than pap's whisky.
	narrator	Jim was laid up for four days and nights. Then the swelling was all gone and he was around again.
	narrator	I made up my mind I wouldn't ever take a-holt of a snake-skin again with my hands,
	narrator	now that I see what had come of it.
	jim	He reckoned I would believe him next time. And he said that handling a snake-skin was such awful bad luck that maybe we hadn't got to the end of it yet.
	jim	He said he druther see the new moon over his left shoulder as much as a thousand times than take up a snake-skin in his hand.
	narrator	Well, I was getting to feel that way myself, though I've always reckoned that looking at the new moon over your left shoulder is one of the carelessest and foolishest things a body can do.
	narrator	Old Hank Bunker done it once, and bragged about it; and in less than two years he got drunk and fell off of the shot-tower,
	narrator	and spread himself out so that he was just a kind of a layer, as you may say; and they slid him edgeways between two barn doors for a coffin,
	narrator	and buried him so, so they say, but I didn't see it. Pap told me. But anyway it all come of looking at the moon that way,
	narrator	like a fool. Well, the days went along, and the river went down between its banks again; and about the first thing we done was to bait one of the big hooks with a skinned rabbit and set it and catch a catfish that was as big as a man,
	narrator	being six foot two inches long, and weighed over two hundred pounds. We couldn't handle him,
	narrator	of course; he would a flung us into Illinois. We just set there and watched him rip and tear around till he drownded.
	narrator	We found a brass button in his stomach and a round ball, and lots of rubbage.
	narrator	We split the ball open with the hatchet, and there was a spool in it.
	jim	He reckoned he'd had it there a long time, to coat it over so and make a ball of it.
	narrator	It was as big a fish as was ever catched in the Mississippi, I reckon.
	jim	He hadn't ever seen a bigger one.
	narrator	He would a been worth a good deal over at the village. They peddle out such a fish as that by the pound in the market-house there; everybody buys some of him; his meat's as white as snow and makes a good fry.
	narrator	Next morning I said it was getting slow and dull, and I wanted to get a stirring up some way.
	narrator	I said I reckoned I would slip over the river and find out what was going on.
	jim	That was a good notion, too.
	narrator	So we shortened up one of the calico gowns, and I turned up my trouser-legs to my knees and got into it.
	narrator	Jim hitched it behind with the hooks, and it was a fair fit. I put on the sun-bonnet and tied it under my chin,
	narrator	and then for a body to look in and see my face was like looking down a joint of stove-pipe.
	narrator	Jim said nobody would know me, even in the daytime, hardly. I practiced around all day to get the hang of the things,
	narrator	and by-and-by I could do pretty well in them, only Jim said I didn't walk like a girl; and he said I must quit pulling up my gown to get at my britches-pocket.
	narrator	I took notice, and done better. I started up the Illinois shore in the canoe just after dark.
	narrator	I started across to the town from a little below the ferry-landing, and the drift of the current fetched me in at the bottom of the town.
	narrator	I tied up and started along the bank. There was a light burning in a little shanty that hadn't been lived in for a long time,
	narrator	and I wondered who had took up quarters there. I slipped up and peeped in at the window.
	narrator	There was a woman about forty year old in there knitting by a candle that was on a pine table.
	narrator	I didn't know her face; she was a stranger, for you couldn't start a face in that town that I didn't know.
	narrator	Now this was lucky, because I was weakening; I was getting afraid I had come; people might know my voice and find me out.
	narrator	But if this woman had been in such a little town two days she could tell me all I wanted to know; so I knocked at the door,
	narrator	and made up my mind I wouldn't forget I was a girl.
