	narrator	As soon as we reckoned everybody was asleep that night we went down the lightning-rod, and shut ourselves up in the lean-to,
	narrator	and got out our pile of fox-fire, and went to work. We cleared everything out of the way,
	narrator	about four or five foot along the middle of the bottom log.
	tom sawyer	I'm right behind Jim's bed now, and we'd dig in under it, and when we got through there couldn't nobody in the cabin ever know there was any hole there,
	tom sawyer	because Jim's counter-pin hung down most to the ground, and you'd have to raise it up and look under to see the hole.
	narrator	So we dug and dug with the case-knives till almost midnight; and then we was dog-tired,
	narrator	and our hands was blistered, and yet you couldn't see we'd done anything hardly.
	huck finn	This ain't no thirty-seven year job; this is a thirty-eight year job, Tom Sawyer.
	tom sawyer	He never said nothing. But he sighed, and pretty soon he stopped digging, and then for a good little while I knowed that he was thinking.
	tom sawyer	It ain't no use, Huck, it ain't a-going to work. If we was prisoners it would,
	tom sawyer	because then we'd have as many years as we wanted, and no hurry; and we wouldn't get but a few minutes to dig,
	tom sawyer	every day, while they was changing watches, and so our hands wouldn't get blistered, and we could keep it up right along,
	tom sawyer	year in and year out, and do it right, and the way it ought to be done.
	tom sawyer	But we can't fool along; we got to rush; we ain't got no time to spare.
	tom sawyer	If we was to put in another night this way we'd have to knock off for a week to let our hands get well—couldn't touch a case-knife with them sooner.
	huck finn	Well, then, what we going to do, Tom?
	tom sawyer	I'll tell you. It ain't right, and it ain't moral, and I wouldn't like it to get out; but there's excuse for picks and letting-on in a case like this; if it warn't so,
	tom sawyer	I wouldn't approve of it, nor I wouldn't stand by and see the rules broke—because right is right,
	tom sawyer	and wrong is wrong, and a body ain't got no business doing wrong when he ain't ignorant and knows better.
	tom sawyer	It might answer for you to dig Jim out with a pick, without any letting on,
	tom sawyer	because you don't know no better; but it wouldn't for me, because I do know better.
	tom sawyer	Gimme a case-knife.
	huck finn	I didn't know just what to do—but then I thought. I scratched around amongst the old tools,
	huck finn	and got a pickaxe and give it to him, and he took it and went to work,
	huck finn	and never said a word.
	narrator	He was always just that particular. Full of principle.
	huck finn	Now you're talking! your head gets leveler and leveler all the time, Tom Sawyer, Picks is the thing,
	huck finn	moral or no moral; and as for me, I don't care shucks for the morality of it,
	huck finn	nohow. When I start in to steal a nigger, or a watermelon, or a Sunday-school book,
	huck finn	I ain't no ways particular how it's done so it's done. What I want is my nigger; or what I want is my watermelon; or what I want is my Sunday-school book; and if a pick's the handiest thing,
	huck finn	that's the thing I'm a-going to dig that nigger or that watermelon or that Sunday-school book out with; and I don't give a dead rat what the authorities thinks about it nuther.
	tom sawyer	Well, there's excuse for picks and letting-on in a case like this; if it warn't so,
	tom sawyer	I wouldn't approve of it, nor I wouldn't stand by and see the rules broke—because right is right,
	tom sawyer	and wrong is wrong, and a body ain't got no business doing wrong when he ain't ignorant and knows better.
	tom sawyer	It might answer for you to dig Jim out with a pick, without any letting on,
	tom sawyer	because you don't know no better; but it wouldn't for me, because I do know better.
	tom sawyer	Gimme a case-knife. Gimme a case-knife.
	huck finn	I didn't know just what to do—but then I thought. I scratched around amongst the old tools,
	huck finn	and got a pickaxe and give it to him, and he took it and went to work,
	huck finn	and never said a word.
	narrator	He was always just that particular. Full of principle.
	huck finn	So then I got a shovel, and then we picked and shoveled, turn about, and made the fur fly.
	huck finn	We stuck to it about a half an hour, which was as long as we could stand up; but we had a good deal of a hole to show for it.
	huck finn	When I got up stairs I looked out at the window and see Tom doing his level best with the lightning-rod,
	huck finn	but he couldn't come it, his hands was so sore. At last he says:
	tom sawyer	It ain't no use, it can't be done. What you reckon I better do? Can't you think of no way?
	huck finn	Yes, but I reckon it ain't regular. Come up the stairs, and let on it's a lightning-rod.
	narrator	So he done it. Next day Tom stole a pewter spoon and a brass candlestick in the house,
	narrator	for to make some pens for Jim out of, and six tallow candles; and I hung around the nigger cabins and laid for a chance,
	narrator	and stole three tin plates. Tom says it wasn't enough; but I said nobody wouldn't ever see the plates that Jim throwed out,
	narrator	because they'd fall in the dog-fennel and jimpson weeds under the window-hole—then we could tote them back and he could use them over again.
	narrator	So Tom was satisfied.
	tom sawyer	Now, the thing to study out is, how to get the things to Jim.
	huck finn	Take them in through the hole, when we get it done.
	tom sawyer	He only just looked scornful, and said something about nobody ever hearing of such an idiotic idea,
	tom sawyer	and then he went to studying. By-and-by he said he had ciphered out two or three ways,
	tom sawyer	but there warn't no need to decide on any of them yet. Said we'd got to post Jim first.
	narrator	That night we went down the lightning-rod a little after ten, and took one of the candles along,
	narrator	and listened under the window-hole, and heard Jim snoring; so we pitched it in, and it didn’t wake him.
	narrator	Then we whirled in with the pick and shovel, and in about two hours and a half the job was done.
	narrator	We crept in under Jim’s bed and into the cabin, and pawed around and found the candle and lit it,
	narrator	and stood over Jim awhile, and found him looking hearty and healthy, and then we woke him up gentle and gradual.
	jim	I was so glad to see us he almost cried; and called us honey, and all the pet names he could think of; and was for having us hunt up a cold-chisel to cut the chain off of his leg with right away,
	jim	and clearing out without losing any time.
	tom sawyer	But Tom he showed him how unregular it would be, and set down and told him all about our plans,
	tom sawyer	and how we could alter them in a minute any time there was an alarm; and not to be the least afraid,
	tom sawyer	because we would see he got away, sure.
	jim	So Jim he said it was all right, and we set there and talked over old times awhile,
	jim	and then Tom asked a lot of questions.
	tom sawyer	When Jim told him Uncle Silas come in every day or two to pray with him,
	tom sawyer	and Aunt Sally come in to see if he was comfortable and had plenty to eat,
	tom sawyer	and both of them was kind as they could be, Tom says:
	narrator	Now I know how to fix it. We'll send you some things by them. I said
	tom sawyer	Don't do nothing of the kind; it's one of the most jackass ideas I ever struck
	narrator	but he never paid no attention to me; went right on. It was his way when he'd got his plans set.
	tom sawyer	So he told Jim how we'd have to smuggle in the rope-ladder pie and other large things by Nat,
	tom sawyer	the nigger that fed him, and he must be on the lookout, and not be surprised,
	tom sawyer	and not let Nat see him open them and we would put small things in uncle's coat-pockets and he must steal them out and we would tie things to aunt's apron-strings or put them in her apron-pocket,
	tom sawyer	if we got a chance and told him what they would be and what they was for And told him how to keep a journal on the shirt with his blood,
	tom sawyer	and all that He told him everything
	narrator	Jim he couldn't see no sense in the most of it, but he allowed we was white folks and knowed better than him; so he was satisfied,
	narrator	and said he would do it all just as Tom said Jim had plenty corn-cob pipes and tobacco; so we had a right down good sociable time then we crawled out through the hole,
	narrator	and so home to bed, with hands that looked like they'd been chawed
	tom sawyer	Tom was in high spirits It was the best fun he ever had in his life,
	tom sawyer	and the most intellectural and said if he only could see his way to it we would keep it up all the rest of our lives and leave Jim to our children to get out for he believed Jim would come to like it better and better the more he
	tom sawyer	got used to it He said that in that way it could be strung out to as much as eighty year,
	tom sawyer	and would be the best time on record And he said it would make us all celebrated that had a hand in it
	narrator	In the morning we went out to the woodpile and chopped up the brass candlestick into handy sizes,
	narrator	and Tom put them and the pewter spoon in his pocket. Then we went to the nigger cabins,
	narrator	and while I got Nat's notice off, Tom shoved a piece of candlestick into the middle of a corn-pone that was in Jim's pan,
	narrator	and we went along with Nat to see how it would work, and it just worked noble; when Jim bit into it it most mashed all his teeth out; and there warn't ever anything could a worked better.
	narrator	Tom said so himself. Jim he never let on but what it was only just a piece of rock or something like that that's always getting into bread,
	narrator	you know; but after that he never bit into nothing but what he jabbed his fork into it in three or four places first.
	narrator	And whilst we was a-standing there in the dimmish light, here comes a couple of the hounds bulging in from under Jim's bed; and they kept on piling in till there was eleven of them,
	narrator	and there warn't hardly room in there to get your breath. By jings, we forgot to fasten that lean-to door!
	narrator	The nigger Nat he only just hollered "Witches" once, and keeled over on to the floor amongst the dogs,
	narrator	and begun to groan like he was dying. Tom jerked the door open and flung out a slab of Jim's meat,
	narrator	and the dogs went for it, and in two seconds he was out himself and back again and shut the door,
	narrator	and I knowed he'd fixed the other door too. Then he went to work on the nigger,
	narrator	coaxing him and petting him, and asking him if he'd been imagining he saw something again.
	nat	Mars Sid, you'll say I's a fool, but if I didn't b'lieve I see most a million dogs,
	nat	er devils, er some'n, I wisht I may die right heah in dese tracks. I did,
	nat	mos' sholy. Mars Sid, I _felt_ um—I _felt_ um, sah; dey was all over me. Dad fetch it,
	nat	I jis' wisht I could git my han's on one er dem witches jis' wunst—on'y jis'
	nat	wunst—it's all _I_'d ast. But mos'ly I wisht dey'd lemme 'lone, I does.
	tom sawyer	Well, I tell you what _I_ think. What makes them come here just at this runaway nigger's breakfast-time?
	tom sawyer	It's because they're hungry; that's the reason. You make them a witch pie; that's the thing for _you_ to do.
	nat	But my lan', Mars Sid, how's _I_ gwyne to make 'm a witch pie? I doan'
	nat	know how to make it. I hain't ever hearn er sich a thing b'fo'.
	tom sawyer	Well, then, I'll have to make it myself.
	nat	Will you do it, honey?—will you? I'll wusshup de groun' und' yo' foot, I will!
	tom sawyer	All right, I'll do it, seeing it's you, and you've been good to us and showed us the runaway nigger.
	tom sawyer	But you got to be mighty careful. When we come around, you turn your back; and then whatever we've put in the pan,
	tom sawyer	don't you let on you see it at all. And don't you look when Jim unloads the pan—something might happen,
	tom sawyer	I don't know what. And above all, don't you _handle_ the witch-things.
	narrator	Hannel 'm, Mars Sid? What is you a-talkin' 'bout?
	nat	I wouldn't lay the weight er my finger on um, not f'r ten hund'd thous'n billion dollars,
	nat	I wouldn't.
