	narrator	DR. SEWARD’S DIARY--_continued_ It was just a quarter before twelve o’clock when we got into the churchyard over the low wall.
	narrator	The night was dark with occasional gleams of moonlight between the rents of the heavy clouds that scudded across the sky.
	narrator	We all kept somehow close together, with Van Helsing slightly in front as he led the way.
	narrator	When we had come close to the tomb I looked well at Arthur, for I feared that the proximity to a place laden with so sorrowful a memory would upset him; but he bore himself well.
	narrator	I took it that the very mystery of the proceeding was in some way a counteractant to his grief.
	narrator	The Professor unlocked the door, and seeing a natural hesitation amongst us for various reasons, solved the difficulty by entering first himself.
	narrator	The rest of us followed, and he closed the door. He then lit a dark lantern and pointed to the coffin.
	narrator	Arthur stepped forward hesitatingly; Van Helsing said to me:
	van helsing	You were with me here yesterday. Was the body of Miss Lucy in that coffin?
	dr. seward	It was.
	van helsing	You hear; and yet there is no one who does not believe with me.
	narrator	He took his screwdriver and again took off the lid of the coffin. Arthur looked on,
	narrator	very pale but silent; when the lid was removed he stepped forward. He evidently did not know that there was a leaden coffin,
	narrator	or, at any rate, had not thought of it. When he saw the rent in the lead,
	narrator	the blood rushed to his face for an instant, but as quickly fell away again, so that he remained of a ghastly whiteness; he was still silent.
	narrator	Van Helsing forced back the leaden flange, and we all looked in and recoiled. The coffin was empty!
	narrator	For several minutes no one spoke a word. The silence was broken by Quincey Morris:
	quincey morris	Professor, I answered for you. Your word is all I want. I wouldn't ask such a thing ordinarily--I wouldn't so dishonour you as to imply a doubt; but this is a mystery that goes beyond any honour or dishonour.
	quincey morris	Is this your doing?
	van helsing	I swear to you by all that I hold sacred that I have not removed nor touched her.
	van helsing	What happened was this: Two nights ago my friend Seward and I came here--with good purpose,
	van helsing	believe me. I opened that coffin, which was then sealed up, and we found it, as now,
	van helsing	empty. We then waited, and saw something white come through the trees. The next day we came here in day-time,
	van helsing	and she lay there. Did she not, friend John?
	dr. seward	Yes.
	narrator	That night we were just in time. One more so small child was missing, and we find it,
	narrator	thank God, unharmed amongst the graves. Yesterday I came here before sundown, for at sundown the Un-Dead can move.
	narrator	I waited here all the night till the sun rose, but I saw nothing. It was most probable that it was because I had laid over the clamps of those doors garlic,
	narrator	which the Un-Dead cannot bear, and other things which they shun. Last night there was no exodus,
	narrator	so to-night before the sundown I took away my garlic and other things. And so it is we find this coffin empty.
	narrator	But bear with me. So far there is much that is strange. Wait you with me outside,
	narrator	unseen and unheard, and things much stranger are yet to be.
	van helsing	So
	narrator	--here he shut the dark slide of his lantern--"now to the outside." He opened the door,
	narrator	and we filed out, he coming last and locking the door behind him. Oh! but it seemed fresh and pure in the night air after the terror of that vault.
	narrator	How sweet it was to see the clouds race by, and the passing gleams of the moonlight between the scudding clouds crossing and passing--like the gladness and sorrow of a man's life; how sweet it was to breathe the fresh air,
	narrator	that had no taint of death and decay; how humanising to see the red lighting of the sky beyond the hill,
	narrator	and to hear far away the muffled roar that marks the life of a great city.
	narrator	Each in his own way was solemn and overcome. Arthur was silent, and was, I could see,
	narrator	striving to grasp the purpose and the inner meaning of the mystery. I was myself tolerably patient,
	narrator	and half inclined again to throw aside doubt and to accept Van Helsing's conclusions. Quincey Morris was phlegmatic in the way of a man who accepts all things,
	narrator	and accepts them in the spirit of cool bravery, with hazard of all he has to stake.
	narrator	Not being able to smoke, he cut himself a good-sized plug of tobacco and began to chew.
	narrator	As to Van Helsing, he was employed in a definite way. First he took from his bag a mass of what looked like thin,
	narrator	wafer-like biscuit, which was carefully rolled up in a white napkin; next he took out a double-handful of some whitish stuff,
	narrator	like dough or putty. He crumbled the wafer up fine and worked it into the mass between his hands.
	narrator	This he then took, and rolling it into thin strips, began to lay them into the crevices between the door and its setting in the tomb.
	narrator	I was somewhat puzzled at this, and being close, asked him what it was that he was doing.
	arthur	What is it that you are doing?
	quincey morris	Yes, what are you up to?
	van helsing	I am closing the tomb, so that the Un-Dead may not enter.
	quincey morris	And is that stuff you have put there going to do it? Great Scott! Is this a game?
	van helsing	It is.
	arthur	What is that which you are using?
	van helsing	This time the question was by Arthur. Van Helsing reverently lifted his hat as he answered: The Host.
	van helsing	I brought it from Amsterdam. I have an Indulgence.
	narrator	It was an answer that appalled the most sceptical of us, and we felt individually that in the presence of such earnest purpose as the Professor's,
	narrator	a purpose which could thus use the to him most sacred of things, it was impossible to distrust.
	narrator	In respectful silence we took the places assigned to us close round the tomb, but hidden from the sight of any one approaching.
	narrator	I pitied the others, especially Arthur. I had myself been apprenticed by my former visits to this watching horror; and yet I,
	narrator	who had up to an hour ago repudiated the proofs, felt my heart sink within me.
	narrator	Never did tombs look so ghastly white; never did cypress, or yew, or juniper so seem the embodiment of funereal gloom; never did tree or grass wave or rustle so ominously; never did bough creak so mysteriously; and never did the far-away howling of dogs send such a woeful presage
	narrator	through the night. There was a long spell of silence, a big, aching void, and then from the Professor a keen "S-s-s-s!"
	narrator	He pointed; and far down the avenue of yews we saw a white figure advance--a dim white figure,
	narrator	which held something dark at its breast. The figure stopped, and at the moment a ray of moonlight fell upon the masses of driving clouds and showed in startling prominence a dark-haired woman,
	narrator	dressed in the cerements of the grave. We could not see the face, for it was bent down over what we saw to be a fair-haired child.
	narrator	There was a pause and a sharp little cry, such as a child gives in sleep,
	narrator	or a dog as it lies before the fire and dreams. We were starting forward, but the Professor's warning hand,
	narrator	seen by us as he stood behind a yew-tree, kept us back; and then as we looked the white figure moved forwards again.
	narrator	It was now near enough for us to see clearly, and the moonlight still held. My own heart grew cold as ice,
	narrator	and I could hear the gasp of Arthur, as we recognised the features of Lucy Westenra.
	narrator	Lucy Westenra, but yet how changed. The sweetness was turned to adamantine, heartless cruelty, and the purity to voluptuous wantonness.
	van helsing	We shuddered with horror.
	narrator	I could see by the tremulous light that even Van Helsing's iron nerve had failed. Arthur was next to me,
	narrator	and if I had not seized his arm and held him up, he would have fallen.
	narrator	When Lucy--I call the thing that was before us Lucy because it bore her shape--saw us she drew back with an angry snarl,
	narrator	such as a cat gives when taken unawares; then her eyes ranged over us. Lucy’s eyes in form and colour; but Lucy’s eyes unclean and full of hell-fire,
	narrator	instead of the pure, gentle orbs we knew. At that moment the remnant of my love passed into hate and loathing; had she then to be killed,
	narrator	I could have done it with savage delight. As she looked, her eyes blazed with unholy light,
	narrator	and the face became wreathed with a voluptuous smile. Oh, God, how it made me shudder to see it!
	narrator	With a careless motion, she flung to the ground, callous as a devil, the child that up to now she had clutched strenuously to her breast,
	narrator	growling over it as a dog growls over a bone. The child gave a sharp cry,
	narrator	and lay there moaning. There was a cold-bloodedness in the act which wrung a groan from Arthur; when she advanced to him with outstretched arms and a wanton smile he fell back and hid his face in his hands.
	lucy westenra	Come to me, Arthur. Leave these others and come to me. My arms are hungry for you.
	lucy westenra	Come, and we can rest together. Come, my husband, come!
	narrator	There was something diabolically sweet in her tones--something of the tinging of glass when struck--which rang through the brains even of us who heard the words addressed to another.
	narrator	As for Arthur, he seemed under a spell; moving his hands from his face, he opened wide his arms.
	narrator	She was leaping for them, when Van Helsing sprang forward and held between them his little golden crucifix.
	narrator	She recoiled from it, and, with a suddenly distorted face, full of rage, dashed past him as if to enter the tomb.
	narrator	When within a foot or two of the door, however, she stopped, as if arrested by some irresistible force.
	narrator	Then she turned, and her face was shown in the clear burst of moonlight and by the lamp,
	narrator	which had now no quiver from Van Helsing’s iron nerves. Never did I see such baffled malice on a face; and never,
	narrator	I trust, shall such ever be seen again by mortal eyes. The beautiful colour became livid,
	narrator	the eyes seemed to throw out sparks of hell-fire, the brows were wrinkled as though the folds of the flesh were the coils of Medusa’s snakes,
	narrator	and the lovely, blood-stained mouth grew to an open square, as in the passion masks of the Greeks and Japanese.
	narrator	If ever a face meant death--if looks could kill--we saw it at that moment. And so for full half a minute,
	narrator	which seemed an eternity, she remained between the lifted crucifix and the sacred closing of her means of entry.
	van helsing	Answer me, oh my friend! Am I to proceed in my work?
	arthur	I cannot bear to see her like this
	narrator	Arthur threw himself on his knees, and hid his face in his hands, as he answered: - Dr. Seward (*male): A doctor and diary keeper who is present during the events in the churchyard.
	narrator	He is observant, caring, and part of the group investigating Lucy's mysterious death. - Arthur (male): Lucy's fiancé who is deeply affected by her transformation into a vampire.
	narrator	He shows great courage when he performs the final act of destroying Lucy's undead form. - Van Helsing (*male): A Dutch professor and expert on supernatural matters who leads the investigation into Lucy's death.
	narrator	He is methodical, brave, and possesses deep religious faith. - Quincey Morris (male): A wealthy American who joins the group in their quest to destroy Lucy's vampire form.
	narrator	He is phlegmatic and brave, showing cool courage in the face of danger. - Lucy Westenra (*female): The deceased woman whose body is discovered empty in the tomb,
	narrator	later revealed to have been transformed into a vampire. She appears both beautiful and horrific during her vampiric form.
	narrator	- Child (*male): A small child who is found near Lucy's tomb and later taken by the vampire.
	narrator	The child is described as being unharmed but moaning after being dropped. PASSAGE: "Do as you will,
	narrator	friend; do as you will. There can be no horror like this ever any more;" and he groaned in spirit.
	narrator	Quincey and I simultaneously moved towards him, and took his arms. We could hear the click of the closing lantern as Van Helsing held it down; coming close to the tomb,
	narrator	he began to remove from the chinks some of the sacred emblem which he had placed there.
	narrator	We all looked on in horrified amazement as we saw, when he stood back, the woman,
	narrator	with a corporeal body as real at that moment as our own, pass in through the interstice where scarce a knife-blade could have gone.
	narrator	We all felt a glad sense of relief when we saw the Professor calmly restoring the strings of putty to the edges of the door.
	van helsing	Come now, my friends; we can do no more till to-morrow. There is a funeral at noon,
	van helsing	so here we shall all come before long after that. The friends of the dead will all be gone by two,
	van helsing	and when the sexton lock the gate we shall remain. Then there is more to do; but not like this of to-night.
	van helsing	As for this little one, he is not much harm, and by to-morrow night he shall be well.
	van helsing	We shall leave him where the police will find him, as on the other night; and then to home.
	van helsing	Coming close to Arthur, he said:--"My friend Arthur, you have had a sore trial; but after,
	van helsing	when you look back, you will see how it was necessary. You are now in the bitter waters,
	van helsing	my child. By this time to-morrow you will, please God, have passed them, and have drunk of the sweet waters; so do not mourn overmuch.
	van helsing	Till then I shall not ask you to forgive me.
	narrator	Arthur and Quincey came home with me, and we tried to cheer each other on the way.
	narrator	We had left the child in safety, and were tired; so we all slept with more or less reality of sleep.
	narrator	* * * * * _29 September, night._--A little before twelve o'clock we three--Arthur, Quincey Morris,
	narrator	and myself--called for the Professor. It was odd to notice that by common consent we had all put on black clothes.
	narrator	Of course, Arthur wore black, for he was in deep mourning, but the rest of us wore it by instinct.
	narrator	We got to the churchyard by half-past one, and strolled about, keeping out of official observation,
	narrator	so that when the gravediggers had completed their task and the sexton under the belief that every one had gone,
	narrator	had locked the gate, we had the place all to ourselves. Van Helsing, instead of his little black bag,
	narrator	had with him a long leather one, something like a cricketing bag; it was manifestly of fair weight.
	narrator	When we were alone and had heard the last of the footsteps die out up the road,
	narrator	we silently, and as if by ordered intention, followed the Professor to the tomb. He unlocked the door,
	narrator	and we entered, closing it behind us. Then he took from his bag the lantern, which he lit,
	narrator	and also two wax candles, which, when lighted, he stuck, by melting their own ends, on other coffins,
	narrator	so that they might give light sufficient to work by. When he again lifted the lid off Lucy's coffin we all looked--Arthur trembling like an aspen--and saw that the body lay there in all its death-beauty.
	narrator	But there was no love in my own heart, nothing but loathing for the foul Thing which had taken Lucy's shape without her soul.
	narrator	I could see even Arthur's face grow hard as he looked. Presently he said to Van Helsing:
	arthur	Is this really Lucy's body, or only a demon in her shape?
	van helsing	It is her body, and yet not it. But wait a while, and you all see her as she was,
	van helsing	and is.
	narrator	She seemed like a nightmare of Lucy as she lay there; the pointed teeth, the bloodstained,
	narrator	voluptuous mouth--which it made one shudder to see--the whole carnal and unspiritual appearance, seeming like a devilish mockery of Lucy's sweet purity.
	narrator	Van Helsing, with his usual methodicalness, began taking the various contents from his bag and placing them ready for use.
	narrator	First he took out a soldering iron and some plumbing solder, and then a small oil-lamp,
	narrator	which gave out, when lit in a corner of the tomb, gas which burned at fierce heat with a blue flame; then his operating knives,
	narrator	which he placed to hand; and last a round wooden stake, some two and a half or three inches thick and about three feet long.
	narrator	One end of it was hardened by charring in the fire, and was sharpened to a fine point.
	narrator	With this stake came a heavy hammer, such as in households is used in the coal-cellar for breaking the lumps.
	narrator	To me, a doctor's preparations for work of any kind are stimulating and bracing, but the effect of these things on both Arthur and Quincey was to cause them a sort of consternation.
	narrator	They both, however, kept their courage, and remained silent and quiet. When all was ready, Van Helsing said:
	van helsing	Before we do anything, let me tell you this; it is out of the lore and experience of the ancients and of all those who have studied the powers of the Un-Dead.
	van helsing	When they become such, there comes with the change the curse of immortality; they cannot die,
	van helsing	but must go on age after age adding new victims and multiplying the evils of the world; for all that die from the preying of the Un-Dead becomes themselves Un-Dead,
	van helsing	and prey on their kind. And so the circle goes on ever widening, like as the ripples from a stone thrown in the water.
	van helsing	Friend Arthur, if you had met that kiss which you know of before poor Lucy die; or again,
	van helsing	last night when you open your arms to her, you would in time, when you had died,
	van helsing	have become _nosferatu_, as they call it in Eastern Europe, and would all time make more of those Un-Deads that so have fill us with horror.
	van helsing	The career of this so unhappy dear lady is but just begun. Those children whose blood she suck are not as yet so much the worse; but if she live on,
	van helsing	Un-Dead, more and more they lose their blood and by her power over them they come to her; and so she draw their blood with that so wicked mouth.
	van helsing	But if she die in truth, then all cease; the tiny wounds of the throats disappear,
	van helsing	and they go back to their plays unknowing ever of what has been. But of the most blessed of all,
	van helsing	when this now Un-Dead be made to rest as true dead, then the soul of the poor lady whom we love shall again be free.
	van helsing	Instead of working wickedness by night and growing more debased in the assimilating of it by day,
	van helsing	she shall take her place with the other Angels. So that, my friend, it will be a blessed hand for her that shall strike the blow that sets her free.
	van helsing	To this I am willing; but is there none amongst us who has a better right?
	van helsing	Will it be no joy to think of hereafter in the silence of the night when sleep is not: 'It was my hand that sent her to the stars; it was the hand of him that loved her best; the hand that of all she would herself have chosen,
	van helsing	had it been to her to choose?' Tell me if there be such a one amongst us?
	narrator	We all looked at Arthur. He saw, too, what we all did, the infinite kindness which suggested that his should be the hand which would restore Lucy to us as a holy,
	narrator	and not an unholy, memory; he stepped forward and said bravely, though his hand trembled, and his face was as pale as snow:
	arthur	My true friend, from the bottom of my broken heart I thank you. Tell me what I am to do,
	arthur	and I shall not falter!
	van helsing	Brave lad! A moment's courage, and it is done. This stake must be driven through her.
	van helsing	It will be a fearful ordeal--be not deceived in that--but it will be only a short time,
	van helsing	and you will then rejoice more than your pain was great; from this grim tomb you will emerge as though you tread on air.
	van helsing	But you must not falter when once you have begun. Only think that we, your true friends,
	van helsing	are round you, and that we pray for you all the time.
	arthur	Go on, said Arthur hoarsely. Tell me what I am to do.
	van helsing	Take this stake in your left hand, ready to place the point over the heart, and the hammer in your right.
	van helsing	Then when we begin our prayer for the dead--I shall read him, I have here the book,
	van helsing	and the others shall follow--strike in God's name, that so all may be well with the dead that we love and that the Un-Dead pass away.
	arthur	Take the stake and the hammer, and when once his mind was set on action his hands never trembled nor even quivered.
	van helsing	Open his missal and began to read, and Quincey and I followed as well as we could.
	arthur	Place the point over the heart, and as I looked I could see its dint in the white flesh.
	arthur	Then he struck with all his might.
	narrator	The Thing in the coffin writhed; and a hideous, blood-curdling screech came from the opened red lips.
	narrator	The body shook and quivered and twisted in wild contortions; the sharp white teeth champed together till the lips were cut,
	narrator	and the mouth was smeared with a crimson foam.
	arthur	But Arthur never faltered. He looked like a figure of Thor as his untrembling arm rose and fell,
	arthur	driving deeper and deeper the mercy-bearing stake, whilst the blood from the pierced heart welled and spurted up around it.
	narrator	His face was set, and high duty seemed to shine through it; the sight of it gave us courage so that our voices seemed to ring through the little vault.
	narrator	And then the writhing and quivering of the body became less, and the teeth seemed to champ,
	narrator	and the face to quiver. Finally it lay still. The terrible task was over. The hammer fell from Arthur’s hand.
	narrator	He reeled and would have fallen had we not caught him. The great drops of sweat sprang from his forehead,
	narrator	and his breath came in broken gasps. It had indeed been an awful strain on him; and had he not been forced to his task by more than human considerations he could never have gone through with it.
	narrator	For a few minutes we were so taken up with him that we did not look towards the coffin.
	narrator	When we did, however, a murmur of startled surprise ran from one to the other of us.
	narrator	We gazed so eagerly that Arthur rose, for he had been seated on the ground, and came and looked too; and then a glad,
	narrator	strange light broke over his face and dispelled altogether the gloom of horror that lay upon it.
	narrator	There, in the coffin lay no longer the foul Thing that we had so dreaded and grown to hate that the work of her destruction was yielded as a privilege to the one best entitled to it,
	narrator	but Lucy as we had seen her in her life, with her face of unequalled sweetness and purity.
	narrator	True that there were there, as we had seen them in life, the traces of care and pain and waste; but these were all dear to us,
	narrator	for they marked her truth to what we knew. One and all we felt that the holy calm that lay like sunshine over the wasted face and form was only an earthly token and symbol of the calm that was to reign for ever.
	van helsing	Come and laid his hand on Arthur's shoulder, and said to him:
	dr. seward	And now, Arthur my friend, dear lad, am I not forgiven?
	narrator	The reaction of the terrible strain came as he took the old man's hand in his,
	narrator	and raising it to his lips, pressed it, and said:
	arthur	Forgiven! God bless you that you have given my dear one her soul again, and me peace.
	narrator	He put his hands on the Professor's shoulder, and laying his head on his breast, cried for a while silently,
	narrator	whilst we stood unmoving.
	van helsing	And now, my child, you may kiss her. Kiss her dead lips if you will, as she would have you to,
	van helsing	if for her to choose. For she is not a grinning devil now--not any more a foul Thing for all eternity.
	van helsing	No longer she is the devil's Un-Dead. She is God's true dead, whose soul is with Him!
	arthur	Kiss her dead lips if you will, as she would have you to, if for her to choose.
	narrator	Arthur bent and kissed her, and then we sent him and Quincey out of the tomb; the Professor and I sawed the top off the stake,
	narrator	leaving the point of it in the body. Then we cut off the head and filled the mouth with garlic.
	narrator	We soldered up the leaden coffin, screwed on the coffin-lid, and gathering up our belongings, came away.
	narrator	When the Professor locked the door he gave the key to Arthur. Outside the air was sweet,
	narrator	the sun shone, and the birds sang, and it seemed as if all nature were tuned to a different pitch.
	narrator	There was gladness and mirth and peace everywhere, for we were at rest ourselves on one account,
	narrator	and we were glad, though it was with a tempered joy.
	van helsing	Now, my friends, one step of our work is done, one the most harrowing to ourselves.
	van helsing	But there remains a greater task: to find out the author of all this our sorrow and to stamp him out.
	van helsing	I have clues which we can follow; but it is a long task, and a difficult,
	van helsing	and there is danger in it, and pain. Shall you not all help me? We have learned to believe,
	van helsing	all of us--is it not so? And since so, do we not see our duty? Yes!
	van helsing	And do we not promise to go on to the bitter end?
	narrator	Each in turn, we took his hand, and the promise was made.
	van helsing	Two nights hence you shall meet with me and dine together at seven of the clock with friend John.
	van helsing	I shall entreat two others, two that you know not as yet; and I shall be ready to all our work show and our plans unfold.
	van helsing	Friend John, you come with me home, for I have much to consult about, and you can help me.
	van helsing	To-night I leave for Amsterdam, but shall return to-morrow night. And then begins our great quest.
	van helsing	But first I shall have much to say, so that you may know what is to do and to dread.
	van helsing	Then our promise shall be made to each other anew; for there is a terrible task before us,
	van helsing	and once our feet are on the ploughshare we must not draw back.
