	narrator	DR. SEWARD’S DIARY _3 October._--Let me put down with exactness all that happened, as well as I can remember it,
	narrator	since last I made an entry. Not a detail that I can recall must be forgotten; in all calmness I must proceed.
	narrator	When I came to Renfield’s room I found him lying on the floor on his left side in a glittering pool of blood.
	narrator	When I went to move him, it became at once apparent that he had received some terrible injuries; there seemed none of that unity of purpose between the parts of the body which marks even lethargic sanity.
	narrator	As the face was exposed I could see that it was horribly bruised, as though it had been beaten against the floor--indeed it was from the face wounds that the pool of blood originated.
	narrator	The attendant who was kneeling beside the body said to me as we turned him over:
	simmons	I think, sir, his back is broken. See, both his right arm and leg and the whole side of his face are paralysed.
	narrator	How such a thing could have happened puzzled the attendant beyond measure. He seemed quite bewildered,
	narrator	and his brows were gathered in as he said:
	simmons	I can’t understand the two things. He could mark his face like that by beating his own head on the floor.
	simmons	I saw a young woman do it once at the Eversfield Asylum before anyone could lay hands on her.
	simmons	And I suppose he might have broke his neck by falling out of bed, if he got in an awkward kink.
	simmons	But for the life of me I can’t imagine how the two things occurred. If his back was broke,
	simmons	he couldn’t beat his head; and if his face was like that before the fall out of bed,
	simmons	there would be marks of it.
	dr. seward	Go to Dr. Van Helsing, and ask him to kindly come here at once. I want him without an instant’s delay.
	narrator	The man ran off, and within a few minutes the Professor, in his dressing gown and slippers,
	narrator	appeared. When he saw Renfield on the ground, he looked keenly at him a moment, and then turned to me.
	narrator	I think he recognised my thought in my eyes, for he said very quietly, manifestly for the ears of the attendant:
	van helsing	Ah, a sad accident! He will need very careful watching, and much attention. I shall stay with you myself; but I shall first dress myself.
	van helsing	If you will remain I shall in a few minutes join you.
	narrator	The patient was now breathing stertorously and it was easy to see that he had suffered some terrible injury.
	narrator	Van Helsing returned with extraordinary celerity, bearing with him a surgical case. He had evidently been thinking and had his mind made up; for,
	narrator	almost before he looked at the patient, he whispered to me:
	van helsing	Send the attendant away. We must be alone with him when he becomes conscious, after the operation.
	dr. seward	I think that will do now, Simmons. We have done all that we can at present.
	dr. seward	You had better go your round, and Dr. Van Helsing will operate. Let me know instantly if there be anything unusual anywhere.
	narrator	The man withdrew, and we went into a strict examination of the patient. The wounds of the face was superficial; the real injury was a depressed fracture of the skull,
	narrator	extending right up through the motor area. The Professor thought a moment and said:
	van helsing	We must reduce the pressure and get back to normal conditions, as far as can be; the rapidity of the suffusion shows the terrible nature of his injury.
	van helsing	The whole motor area seems affected. The suffusion of the brain will increase quickly, so we must trephine at once or it may be too late.
	narrator	As he was speaking there was a soft tapping at the door. I went over and opened it and found in the corridor without,
	narrator	Arthur and Quincey in pajamas and slippers: the former spoke:
	arthur	I heard your man call up Dr. Van Helsing and tell him of an accident. So I woke Quincey or rather called for him as he was not asleep.
	arthur	Things are moving too quickly and too strangely for sound sleep for any of us these times.
	arthur	I’ve been thinking that to-morrow night will not see things as they have been. We’ll have to look back--and forward a little more than we have done.
	arthur	May we come in?
	dr. seward	I nodded, and held the door open till they had entered; then I closed it again.
	dr. seward	When Quincey saw the attitude and state of the patient, and noted the horrible pool on the floor,
	dr. seward	he said softly:
	quincey	My God! what has happened to him? Poor, poor devil!
	dr. seward	I told him briefly, and added that we expected he would recover consciousness after the operation--for a short time,
	dr. seward	at all events. He went at once and sat down on the edge of the bed,
	dr. seward	with Godalming beside him; we all watched in patience.
	van helsing	We shall wait. Just long enough to fix the best spot for trephining, so that we may most quickly and perfectly remove the blood clot; for it is evident that the hæmorrhage is increasing.
	narrator	The minutes during which we waited passed with fearful slowness. I had a horrible sinking in my heart,
	narrator	and from Van Helsing’s face I gathered that he felt some fear or apprehension as to what was to come.
	narrator	I dreaded the words that Renfield might speak. I was positively afraid to think; but the conviction of what was coming was on me,
	narrator	as I have read of men who have heard the death-watch. The poor man’s breathing came in uncertain gasps.
	narrator	Each instant he seemed as though he would open his eyes and speak; but then would follow a prolonged stertorous breath,
	narrator	and he would relapse into a more fixed insensibility. Inured as I was to sick beds and death,
	narrator	this suspense grew, and grew upon me. I could almost hear the beating of my own heart; and the blood surging through my temples sounded like blows from a hammer.
	narrator	The silence finally became agonising. I looked at my companions, one after another, and saw from their flushed faces and damp brows that they were enduring equal torture.
	narrator	There was a nervous suspense over us all, as though overhead some dread bell would peal out powerfully when we should least expect it.
	narrator	At last there came a time when it was evident that the patient was sinking fast; he might die at any moment.
	narrator	I looked up at the Professor and caught his eyes fixed on mine.
	van helsing	There is no time to lose. His words may be worth many lives; I have been thinking so,
	van helsing	as I stood here. It may be there is a soul at stake! We shall operate just above the ear.
	narrator	Without another word he made the operation. For a few moments the breathing continued to be stertorous.
	narrator	Then there came a breath so prolonged that it seemed as though it would tear open his chest.
	narrator	Suddenly his eyes opened, and became fixed in a wild, helpless stare. This was continued for a few moments; then it softened into a glad surprise,
	narrator	and from the lips came a sigh of relief. He moved convulsively, and as he did so,
	narrator	said:
	renfield	I’ll be quiet, Doctor. Tell them to take off the strait-waistcoat. I have had a terrible dream,
	renfield	and it has left me so weak that I cannot move. What’s wrong with my face?
	renfield	it feels all swollen, and it smarts dreadfully.
	narrator	He tried to turn his head; but even with the effort his eyes seemed to grow glassy again so I gently put it back.
	van helsing	Tell us your dream, Mr. Renfield.
	renfield	That is Dr. Van Helsing. How good it is of you to be here. Give me some water,
	renfield	my lips are dry; and I shall try to tell you. I dreamed
	narrator	--he stopped and seemed fainting, I called quietly to Quincey-- The brandy--it is in my study--quick!
	narrator	He flew and returned with a glass, the decanter of brandy and a carafe of water.
	narrator	We moistened the parched lips, and the patient quickly revived. It seemed, however, that his poor injured brain had been working in the interval,
	narrator	for, when he was quite conscious, he looked at me piercingly with an agonised confusion which I shall never forget,
	narrator	and said:
	renfield	I must not deceive myself; it was no dream, but all a grim reality.
	narrator	Then his eyes roved round the room; as they caught sight of the two figures sitting patiently on the edge of the bed he went on:
	renfield	If I were not sure already, I would know from them.
	narrator	For an instant his eyes closed--not with pain or sleep but voluntarily, as though he were bringing all his faculties to bear; when he opened them he said,
	narrator	hurriedly, and with more energy than he had yet displayed:
	renfield	Quick, Doctor, quick. I am dying! I feel that I have but a few minutes; and then I must go back to death--or worse!
	renfield	Wet my lips with brandy again. I have something that I must say before I die; or before my poor crushed brain dies anyhow.
	renfield	Thank you! It was that night after you left me, when I implored you to let me go away.
	renfield	I couldn't speak then, for I felt my tongue was tied; but I was as sane then,
	renfield	except in that way, as I am now. I was in an agony of despair for a long time after you left me; it seemed hours.
	renfield	Then there came a sudden peace to me. My brain seemed to become cool again, and I realised where I was.
	renfield	I heard the dogs bark behind our house, but not where He was!
	narrator	As he spoke, Van Helsing's eyes never blinked, but his hand came out and met mine and gripped it hard.
	narrator	He did not, however, betray himself; he nodded slightly and said: "Go on," in a low voice.
	renfield	He came up to the window in the mist, as I had seen him often before; but he was solid then--not a ghost,
	renfield	and his eyes were fierce like a man's when angry. He was laughing with his red mouth; the sharp white teeth glinted in the moonlight when he turned to look back over the belt of trees,
	renfield	to where the dogs were barking. I wouldn't ask him to come in at first, though I knew he wanted to--just as he had wanted all along.
	renfield	Then he began promising me things--not in words but by doing them.
	narrator	He was interrupted by a word from the Professor:
	van helsing	How?
	renfield	By making them happen; just as he used to send in the flies when the sun was shining.
	renfield	Great big fat ones with steel and sapphire on their wings; and big moths, in the night,
	renfield	with skull and cross-bones on their backs.
	narrator	Van Helsing nodded to him as he whispered to me unconsciously:
	van helsing	The _Acherontia Aitetropos of the Sphinges_--what you call the 'Death's-head Moth'?
	narrator	The patient went on without stopping.
	renfield	Then he began to whisper: 'Rats, rats, rats! Hundreds, thousands, millions of them, and every one a life; and dogs to eat them,
	renfield	and cats too. All lives! all red blood, with years of life in it; and not merely buzzing flies!
	renfield	I laughed at him, for I wanted to see what he could do. Then the dogs howled,
	renfield	away beyond the dark trees in His house. He beckoned me to the window. I got up and looked out,
	renfield	and He raised his hands, and seemed to call out without using any words. A dark mass spread over the grass,
	renfield	coming on like the shape of a flame of fire; and then He moved the mist to the right and left,
	renfield	and I could see that there were thousands of rats with their eyes blazing red--like His,
	renfield	only smaller. He held up his hand, and they all stopped; and I thought he seemed to be saying: 'All these lives will I give you,
	renfield	ay, and many more and greater, through countless ages, if you will fall down and worship me!
	renfield	And then a red cloud, like the colour of blood, seemed to close over my eyes; and before I knew what I was doing,
	renfield	I found myself opening the sash and saying to Him: 'Come in, Lord and Master! The rats were all gone,
	renfield	but He slid into the room through the sash, though it was only open an inch wide--just as the Moon herself has often come in through the tiniest crack and has stood before me in all her size and splendour.
	narrator	His voice was weaker, so I moistened his lips with the brandy again, and he continued; but it seemed as though his memory had gone on working in the interval for his story was further advanced.
	van helsing	Let him go on. Do not interrupt him; he cannot go back, and maybe could not proceed at all if once he lost the thread of his thought.
	renfield	All day I waited to hear from him, but he did not send me anything, not even a blow-fly,
	renfield	and when the moon got up I was pretty angry with him. When he slid in through the window,
	renfield	though it was shut, and did not even knock, I got mad with him. He sneered at me,
	renfield	and his white face looked out of the mist with his red eyes gleaming, and he went on as though he owned the whole place,
	renfield	and I was no one. He didn’t even smell the same as he went by me.
	renfield	I couldn’t hold him. I thought that, somehow, Mrs. Harker had come into the room.
	narrator	The two men sitting on the bed stood up and came over, standing behind him so that he could not see them,
	narrator	but where they could hear better. They were both silent, but the Professor started and quivered; his face,
	narrator	however, grew grimmer and sterner still.
	renfield	When Mrs. Harker came in to see me this afternoon she wasn’t the same; it was like tea after the teapot had been watered.
	renfield	I didn’t know that she was here till she spoke; and she didn’t look the same.
	renfield	I don’t care for the pale people; I like them with lots of blood in them,
	renfield	and hers had all seemed to have run out. I didn’t think of it at the time; but when she went away I began to think,
	renfield	and it made me mad to know that He had been taking the life out of her.
	narrator	I could feel that the rest quivered, as I did, but we remained otherwise still.
	renfield	So when He came to-night I was ready for Him. I saw the mist stealing in,
	renfield	and I grabbed it tight. I had heard that madmen have unnatural strength; and as I knew I was a madman--at times anyhow--I resolved to use my power.
	renfield	Ay, and He felt it too, for He had to come out of the mist to struggle with me.
	renfield	I held tight; and I thought I was going to win, for I didn’t mean Him to take any more of her life,
	renfield	till I saw His eyes. They burned into me, and my strength became like water. He slipped through it,
	renfield	and when I tried to cling to Him, He raised me up and flung me down.
	renfield	There was a red cloud before me, and a noise like thunder, and the mist seemed to steal away under the door.
	van helsing	We know the worst now. He is here, and we know his purpose. It may not be too late.
	van helsing	Let us be armed--the same as we were the other night, but lose no time; there is not an instant to spare.
	narrator	There was no need to put our fear, nay our conviction, into words--we shared them in common.
	narrator	We all hurried and took from our rooms the same things that we had when we entered the Count’s house.
	van helsing	They never leave me; and they shall not till this unhappy business is over. Be wise also,
	van helsing	my friends. It is no common enemy that we deal with. Alas! alas! that that dear Madam Mina should suffer!
	narrator	He stopped; his voice was breaking, and I do not know if rage or terror predominated in my own heart.
	narrator	Outside the Harkers’ door we paused.
	quincey	Should we disturb her?
	van helsing	We must. If the door be locked, I shall break it in.
	quincey	May it not frighten her terribly? It is unusual to break into a lady’s room!
	van helsing	You are always right; but this is life and death. All chambers are alike to the doctor; and even were they not they are all as one to me to-night.
	van helsing	Friend John, when I turn the handle, if the door does not open, do you put your shoulder down and shove; and you too,
	van helsing	my friends. Now! I turn the handle, but the door does not yield. We throw ourselves against it; with a crash it burst open,
	van helsing	and we almost fall headlong into the room.
	narrator	The Professor did actually fall, and I saw across him as he gathered himself up from hands and knees.
	narrator	What I saw appalled me. I felt my hair rise like bristles on the back of my neck,
	narrator	and my heart seemed to stand still. The moonlight was so bright that through the thick yellow blind the room was light enough to see.
	narrator	On the bed beside the window lay Jonathan Harker, his face flushed and breathing heavily as though in a stupor.
	narrator	Kneeling on the near edge of the bed facing outwards was the white-clad figure of his wife.
	narrator	By her side stood a tall, thin man, clad in black. His face was turned from us,
	narrator	but the instant we saw we all recognised the Count--in every way, even to the scar on his forehead.
	narrator	With his left hand he held both Mrs. Harker's hands, keeping them away with her arms at full tension; his right hand gripped her by the back of the neck,
	narrator	forcing her face down on his bosom. Her white nightdress was smeared with blood, and a thin stream trickled down the man's bare breast which was shown by his torn-open dress.
	narrator	The attitude of the two had a terrible resemblance to a child forcing a kitten's nose into a saucer of milk to compel it to drink.
	narrator	As we burst into the room, the Count turned his face, and the hellish look that I had heard described seemed to leap into it.
	narrator	His eyes flamed red with devilish passion; the great nostrils of the white aquiline nose opened wide and quivered at the edge; and the white sharp teeth,
	narrator	behind the full lips of the blood-dripping mouth, champed together like those of a wild beast.
	narrator	With a wrench, which threw his victim back upon the bed as though hurled from a height,
	narrator	he turned and sprang at us. But by this time the Professor had gained his feet,
	narrator	and was holding towards him the envelope which contained the Sacred Wafer. The Count suddenly stopped,
	narrator	just as poor Lucy had done outside the tomb, and cowered back. Further and further back he cowered,
	narrator	as we, lifting our crucifixes, advanced. The moonlight suddenly failed, as a great black cloud sailed across the sky; and when the gaslight sprang up under Quincey's match,
	narrator	we saw nothing but a faint vapour. This, as we looked, trailed under the door, which with the recoil from its bursting open,
	narrator	had swung back to its old position. Van Helsing, Art, and I moved forward to Mrs. Harker,
	narrator	who by this time had drawn her breath and with it had given a scream so wild,
	narrator	so ear-piercing, so despairing that it seems to me now that it will ring in my ears till my dying day.
	narrator	For a few seconds she lay in her helpless attitude and disarray. Her face was ghastly,
	narrator	with a pallor which was accentuated by the blood which smeared her lips and cheeks and chin; from her throat trickled a thin stream of blood; her eyes were mad with terror.
	narrator	Then she put before her face her poor crushed hands, which bore on their whiteness the red mark of the Count's terrible grip,
	narrator	and from behind them came a low desolate wail which made the terrible scream seem only the quick expression of an endless grief.
	van helsing	The Count suddenly stopped, just as poor Lucy had done outside the tomb, and cowered back.
	van helsing	Further and further back he cowered, as we, lifting our crucifixes, advanced. The moonlight suddenly failed,
	van helsing	as a great black cloud sailed across the sky; and when the gaslight sprang up under Quincey's match,
	van helsing	we saw nothing but a faint vapour. This, as we looked, trailed under the door, which with the recoil from its bursting open,
	van helsing	had swung back to its old position. Van Helsing, Art, and I moved forward to Mrs. Harker,
	van helsing	who by this time had drawn her breath and with it had given a scream so wild,
	van helsing	so ear-piercing, so despairing that it seems to me now that it will ring in my ears till my dying day.
	van helsing	For a few seconds she lay in her helpless attitude and disarray. Her face was ghastly,
	van helsing	with a pallor which was accentuated by the blood which smeared her lips and cheeks and chin; from her throat trickled a thin stream of blood; her eyes were mad with terror.
	van helsing	Then she put before her face her poor crushed hands, which bore on their whiteness the red mark of the Count's terrible grip,
	van helsing	and from behind them came a low desolate wail which made the terrible scream seem only the quick expression of an endless grief.
	van helsing	I stepped forward and drew the coverlet gently over her body, whilst Art, after looking at her face for an instant despairingly,
	van helsing	ran out of the room. Van Helsing whispered to me:
	narrator	Jonathan is in a stupor such as we know the Vampire can produce. We can do nothing with poor Madam Mina for a few moments till she recovers herself; I must wake him!
	narrator	He dipped the end of a towel in cold water and with it began to flick him on the face,
	narrator	his wife all the while holding her face between her hands and sobbing in a way that was heart-breaking to hear.
	narrator	I raised the blind, and looked out of the window. There was much moonshine; and as I looked I could see Quincey Morris run across the lawn and hide himself in the shadow of a great yew-tree.
	narrator	It puzzled me to think why he was doing this; but at the instant I heard Harker's quick exclamation as he woke to partial consciousness,
	narrator	and turned to the bed. On his face, as there might well be, was a look of wild amazement.
	narrator	He seemed dazed for a few seconds, and then full consciousness seemed to burst upon him all at once,
	narrator	and he started up. His wife was aroused by the quick movement, and turned to him with her arms stretched out,
	narrator	as though to embrace him; instantly, however, she drew them in again, and putting her elbows together,
	narrator	held her hands before her face, and shuddered till the bed beneath her shook.
	jonathan harker	In God's name what does this mean? Dr. Seward, Dr. Van Helsing, what is it? What has happened?
	jonathan harker	What is wrong? Mina, dear, what is it? What does that blood mean? My God, my God!
	jonathan harker	has it come to this! and, raising himself to his knees, he beat his hands wildly together.
	jonathan harker	Good God help us! help her! oh, help her! With a quick movement he jumped from bed,
	jonathan harker	and began to pull on his clothes,--all the man in him awake at the need for instant exertion.
	jonathan harker	What has happened? Tell me all about it! Dr. Van Helsing, you love Mina, I know.
	jonathan harker	Oh, do something to save her. It cannot have gone too far yet. Guard her while I look for _him_!
	mina	No! no! Jonathan, you must not leave me. I have suffered enough to-night, God knows, without the dread of his harming you.
	mina	You must stay with me. Stay with these friends who will watch over you! Her expression became frantic as she spoke; and,
	mina	he yielding to her, she pulled him down sitting on the bed side, and clung to him fiercely.
	narrator	Van Helsing and I tried to calm them both. The Professor held up his little golden crucifix,
	narrator	and said with wonderful calmness: Do not fear, my dear. We are here; and whilst this is close to you no foul thing can approach.
	narrator	You are safe for to-night; and we must be calm and take counsel together.
	mina	Do not fear, my dear. We are here; and whilst this is close to you no foul thing can approach.
	mina	You are safe for to-night; and we must be calm and take counsel together.
	narrator	She shuddered and was silent, holding down her head on her husband's breast. When she raised it,
	narrator	his white night-robe was stained with blood where her lips had touched, and where the thin open wound in her neck had sent forth drops.
	mina	The instant she saw it she drew back, with a low wail, and whispered, amidst choking sobs:
	narrator	Unclean, unclean! I must touch him or kiss him no more. Oh, that it should be that it is I who am now his worst enemy,
	narrator	and whom he may have most cause to fear. To this he spoke out resolutely:
	arthur	Nonsense, Mina. It is a shame to me to hear such a word. I would not hear it of you; and I shall not hear it from you.
	arthur	May God judge me by my deserts, and punish me with more bitter suffering than even this hour,
	arthur	if by any act or will of mine anything ever come between us!
	narrator	He put out his arms and folded her to his breast; and for a while she lay there sobbing.
	narrator	He looked at us over her bowed head, with eyes that blinked damply above his quivering nostrils; his mouth was set as steel.
	narrator	After a while her sobs became less frequent and more faint, and then he said to me,
	narrator	speaking with a studied calmness which I felt tried his nervous power to the utmost: And now,
	narrator	Dr. Seward, tell me all about it. Too well I know the broad fact; tell me all that has been.
	jonathan harker	I told him exactly what had happened, and he listened with seeming impassiveness; but his nostrils twitched and his eyes blazed as I told how the ruthless hands of the Count had held his wife in that terrible and horrid position,
	jonathan harker	with her mouth to the open wound in his breast.
	narrator	It interested me, even at that moment, to see, that, whilst the face of white set passion worked convulsively over the bowed head,
	narrator	the hands tenderly and lovingly stroked the ruffled hair. Just as I had finished, Quincey and Godalming knocked at the door.
	narrator	They entered in obedience to our summons.
	van helsing	I understood him to mean if we were to take advantage of their coming to divert if possible the thoughts of the unhappy husband and wife from each other and from themselves; so on nodding acquiescence to him he asked them what they had seen or done.
	arthur	To which Lord Godalming answered:
	narrator	I could not see him anywhere in the passage, or in any of our rooms. I looked in the study but,
	narrator	though he had been there, he had gone. He had, however He stopped suddenly, looking at the poor drooping figure on the bed.
	van helsing	Go on, friend Arthur. We want here no more concealments. Our hope now is in knowing all.
	van helsing	Tell freely!
	narrator	He had been there, and though it could only have been for a few seconds, he made rare hay of the place.
	narrator	All the manuscript had been burned, and the blue flames were flickering amongst the white ashes; the cylinders of your phonograph too were thrown on the fire,
	narrator	and the wax had helped the flames. Here I interrupted.
	jonathan harker	Thank God there is the other copy in the safe!
	narrator	His face lit for a moment, but fell again as he went on: I ran downstairs then,
	narrator	but could see no sign of him. I looked into Renfield’s room; but there was no trace there except----!
	narrator	Again he paused.
	jonathan harker	Go on,
	narrator	so he bowed his head and moistening his lips with his tongue, added: except that the poor fellow is dead.
	mrs. harker	God’s will be done!
	narrator	I could not but feel that Art was keeping back something; but, as I took it that it was with a purpose,
	narrator	I said nothing.
	van helsing	And you, friend Quincey, have you any to tell?
	narrator	“A little,” he answered. “It may be much eventually, but at present I can’t say. I thought it well to know if possible where the Count would go when he left the house.
	narrator	I did not see him; but I saw a bat rise from Renfield’s window, and flap westward.
	narrator	I expected to see him in some shape go back to Carfax; but he evidently sought some other lair.
	narrator	He will not be back to-night; for the sky is reddening in the east, and the dawn is close.
	narrator	We must work to-morrow!” He said the latter words through his shut teeth. For a space of perhaps a couple of minutes there was silence,
	narrator	and I could fancy that I could hear the sound of our hearts beating; then Van Helsing said,
	narrator	placing his hand very tenderly on Mrs. Harker’s head:-- “And now, Madam Mina--poor, dear, dear Madam Mina--tell us exactly what happened.
	narrator	God knows that I do not want that you be pained; but it is need that we know all.
	narrator	For now more than ever has all work to be done quick and sharp, and in deadly earnest.
	narrator	The day is close to us that must end all, if it may be so; and now is the chance that we may live and learn.”
	narrator	The poor, dear lady shivered, and I could see the tension of her nerves as she clasped her husband closer to her and bent her head lower and lower still on his breast.
	narrator	Then she raised her head proudly, and held out one hand to Van Helsing who took it in his,
	narrator	and, after stooping and kissing it reverently, held it fast. The other hand was locked in that of her husband,
	narrator	who held his other arm thrown round her protectingly. After a pause in which she was evidently ordering her thoughts,
	narrator	she began:
	mina	I took the sleeping draught which you had so kindly given me, but for a long time it did not act.
	mina	I seemed to become more wakeful, and myriads of horrible fancies began to crowd in upon my mind--all of them connected with death,
	mina	and vampires; with blood, and pain, and trouble.
	narrator	Her husband involuntarily groaned as she turned to him and said lovingly:
	mina	Do not fret, dear. You must be brave and strong, and help me through the horrible task.
	mina	If you only knew what an effort it is to me to tell of this fearful thing at all,
	mina	you would understand how much I need your help. Well, I saw I must try to help the medicine to its work with my will,
	mina	if it was to do me any good, so I resolutely set myself to sleep. Sure enough sleep must soon have come to me,
	mina	for I remember no more.
	narrator	Jonathan coming in had not waked me, for he lay by my side when next I remember.
	mina	There was in the room the same thin white mist that I had before noticed. But I forget now if you know of this; you will find it in my diary which I shall show you later.
	mina	I felt the same vague terror which had come to me before and the same sense of some presence.
	mina	I turned to wake Jonathan, but found that he slept so soundly that it seemed as if it was he who had taken the sleeping draught,
	mina	and not I. I tried, but I could not wake him. This caused me a great fear,
	mina	and I looked around terrified. Then indeed, my heart sank within me: beside the bed, as if he had stepped out of the mist--or rather as if the mist had turned into his figure,
	mina	for it had entirely disappeared--stood a tall, thin man, all in black. I knew him at once from the description of the others.
	mina	The waxen face; the high aquiline nose, on which the light fell in a thin white line; the parted red lips,
	mina	with the sharp white teeth showing between; and the red eyes that I had seemed to see in the sunset on the windows of St. Mary's Church at Whitby.
	mina	I knew, too, the red scar on his forehead where Jonathan had struck him. For an instant my heart stood still,
	mina	and I would have screamed out, only that I was paralysed.
	the count	Silence! If you make a sound I shall take him and dash his brains out before your very eyes.
	mina	I was appalled and was too bewildered to do or say anything.
	the count	With a mocking smile, he placed one hand upon my shoulder and, holding me tight, bared my throat with the other,
	the count	saying as he did so, 'First, a little refreshment to reward my exertions. You may as well be quiet; it is not the first time,
	the count	or the second, that your veins have appeased my thirst!
	mina	I was bewildered, and, strangely enough, I did not want to hinder him. I suppose it is a part of the horrible curse that such is,
	mina	when his touch is on his victim. And oh, my God, my God, pity me!
	the count	First, a little refreshment to reward my exertions. You may as well be quiet; it is not the first time,
	the count	or the second, that your veins have appeased my thirst!
	mina	He placed his reeking lips upon my throat!
	narrator	Her husband groaned again.
	mina	I felt my strength fading away, and I was in a half swoon. How long this horrible thing lasted I know not; but it seemed that a long time must have passed before he took his foul,
	mina	awful, sneering mouth away. I saw it drip with the fresh blood!
	narrator	The remembrance seemed for a while to overwhelm her, and she drooped and would have sunk down but for her husband's sustaining arm.
	mina	With a great effort she recovered herself and went on:
	the count	And so you, like the others, would play your brains against mine. You would help these men to hunt me and frustrate me in my designs!
	the count	You know now, and they know in part already, and will know in full before long,
	the count	what it is to cross my path. They should have kept their energies for use closer to home.
	the count	Whilst they played wits against me--against me who commanded nations, and intrigued for them, and fought for them,
	the count	hundreds of years before they were born--I was countermining them. And you, their best beloved one,
	the count	are now to me, flesh of my flesh; blood of my blood; kin of my kin; my bountiful wine-press for a while; and shall be later on my companion and my helper.
	the count	You shall be avenged in turn; for not one of them but shall minister to your needs.
	the count	But as yet you are to be punished for what you have done. You have aided in thwarting me; now you shall come to my call.
	the count	When my brain says "Come!" to you, you shall cross land or sea to do my bidding; and to that end this!
	the count	With that he pulled open his shirt, and with his long sharp nails opened a vein in his breast.
	the count	When the blood began to spurt out, he took my hands in one of his, holding them tight,
	the count	and with the other seized my neck and pressed my mouth to the wound, so that I must either suffocate or swallow some of the----
	mina	Oh my God! my God! what have I done? What have I done to deserve such a fate,
	mina	I who have tried to walk in meekness and righteousness all my days. God pity me!
	mina	Look down on a poor soul in worse than mortal peril; and in mercy pity those to whom she is dear!
	narrator	Then she began to rub her lips as though to cleanse them from pollution. As she was telling her terrible story,
	narrator	the eastern sky began to quicken, and everything became more and more clear. Harker was still and quiet; but over his face,
	narrator	as the awful narrative went on, came a grey look which deepened and deepened in the morning light,
	narrator	till when the first red streak of the coming dawn shot up, the flesh stood darkly out against the whitening hair.
	narrator	We have arranged that one of us is to stay within call of the unhappy pair till we can meet together and arrange about taking action.
	narrator	Of this I am sure: the sun rises to-day on no more miserable house in all the great round of its daily course.
