	narrator	It rained and it rained and it rained. Piglet told himself that never in all his life,
	narrator	and _he_ was goodness knows _how_ old--three, was it, or four?--never had he seen so much rain.
	narrator	Days and days and days.
	piglet	If only, I had been in Pooh's house, or Christopher Robin's house, or Rabbit's house when it began to rain,
	piglet	then I should have had Company all this time, instead of being here all alone, with nothing to do except wonder when it will stop.
	piglet	Did you ever see such rain, Pooh?
	pooh	Isn't it _awful_, Piglet?
	piglet	I wonder how it is over Christopher Robin's way
	pooh	I should think poor old Rabbit is about flooded out by this time.
	narrator	It would have been jolly to talk like this, and really, it wasn't much good having anything exciting like floods,
	narrator	if you couldn't share them with somebody. For it was rather exciting. The little dry ditches in which Piglet had nosed about so often had become streams,
	narrator	the little streams across which he had splashed were rivers, and the river, between whose steep banks they had played so happily,
	narrator	had sprawled out of its own bed and was taking up so much room everywhere, that Piglet was beginning to wonder whether it would be coming into _his_ bed soon.
	piglet	It's a little Anxious, to be a Very Small Animal Entirely Surrounded by Water. Christopher Robin and Pooh could escape by Climbing Trees,
	piglet	and Kanga could escape by Jumping, and Rabbit could escape by Burrowing, and Owl could escape by Flying,
	piglet	and Eeyore could escape by--by Making a Loud Noise Until Rescued, and here am I, surrounded by water and I can't do _anything_.
	narrator	It went on raining, and every day the water got a little higher, until now it was nearly up to Piglet's window ...
	narrator	and still he hadn't done anything.
	piglet	There's Pooh. Pooh hasn't much Brain, but he never comes to any harm. He does silly things and they turn out right.
	piglet	There's Owl. Owl hasn't exactly got Brain, but he Knows Things. He would know the Right Thing to Do when Surrounded by Water.
	piglet	There's Rabbit. He hasn't Learnt in Books, but he can always Think of a Clever Plan.
	piglet	There's Kanga. She isn't Clever, Kanga isn't, but she would be so anxious about Roo that she would do a Good Thing to Do without thinking about It.
	piglet	And then there's Eeyore. And Eeyore is so miserable anyhow that he wouldn't mind about this.
	piglet	But I wonder what Christopher Robin would do?
	narrator	Then suddenly he remembered a story which Christopher Robin had told him about a man on a desert island who had written something in a bottle and thrown it in the sea; and Piglet thought that if he wrote something in a bottle and threw it in the water,
	narrator	perhaps somebody would come and rescue _him_! He left the window and began to search his house,
	narrator	all of it that wasn't under water, and at last he found a pencil and a small piece of dry paper,
	narrator	and a bottle with a cork to it. And he wrote on one side of the paper: HELP!
	narrator	PIGLET (ME) and on the other side: IT'S ME PIGLET, HELP HELP. Then he put the paper in the bottle,
	narrator	and he corked the bottle up as tightly as he could, and he leant out of his window as far as he could lean without falling in,
	narrator	and he threw the bottle as far as he could throw--_splash!--and in a little while it bobbed up again on the water; and he watched it floating slowly away in the distance,
	narrator	until his eyes ached with looking, and sometimes he thought it was the bottle, and sometimes he thought it was just a ripple on the water which he was following,
	narrator	and then suddenly he knew that he would never see it again and that he had done all that he could do to save himself.
	piglet	So now, somebody else will have to do something, and I hope they will do it soon,
	piglet	because if they don't I shall have to swim, which I can't, so I hope they do it soon.
	piglet	I wish Pooh were here. It's so much more friendly with two.
	narrator	When the rain began Pooh was asleep. It rained, and it rained, and it rained, and he slept and he slept and he slept.
	narrator	He had had a tiring day. You remember how he discovered the North Pole; well, he was so proud of this that he asked Christopher Robin if there were any other Poles such as a Bear of Little Brain might discover.
	christopher robin	There's a South Pole, and I expect there's an East Pole and a West Pole, though people don't like talking about them.
	narrator	Pooh was very excited when he heard this, and suggested that they should have an Expotition to discover the East Pole,
	narrator	but Christopher Robin had thought of something else to do with Kanga; so Pooh went out to discover the East Pole by himself.
	narrator	Whether he discovered it or not, I forget; but he was so tired when he got home that,
	narrator	in the very middle of his supper, after he had been eating for little more than half-an-hour,
	narrator	he fell fast asleep in his chair, and slept and slept and slept. Then suddenly he was dreaming.
	narrator	He was at the East Pole, and it was a very cold pole with the coldest sort of snow and ice all over it.
	narrator	He had found a bee-hive to sleep in, but there wasn't room for his legs, so he had left them outside.
	narrator	And Wild Woozles, such as inhabit the East Pole, came and nibbled all the fur off his legs to make nests for their Young.
	narrator	And the more they nibbled, the colder his legs got, until suddenly he woke up with an _Ow!_--and there he was,
	narrator	sitting in his chair with his feet in the water, and water all round him!
	pooh	This is Serious. I must have an Escape.
	narrator	So he took his largest pot of honey and escaped with it to a broad branch of his tree,
	narrator	well above the water, and then he climbed down again and escaped with another pot ...
	narrator	and when the whole Escape was finished, there was Pooh sitting on his branch, dangling his legs,
	narrator	and there, beside him, were ten pots of honey. Two days later, there was Pooh, sitting on his branch,
	narrator	dangling his legs, and there, beside him, were four pots of honey. Three days later, there was Pooh,
	narrator	sitting on his branch, dangling his legs, and there beside him, was one pot of honey.
	narrator	Four days later, there was Pooh ... And it was on the morning of the fourth day that Piglet's bottle came floating past him,
	narrator	and with one loud cry of "Honey!" Pooh plunged into the water, seized the bottle, and struggled back to his tree again.
	pooh	Bother! All that wet for nothing. What's that bit of paper doing? It's a Missage, that's what it is.
	pooh	And that letter is a 'P,' and so is that, and so is that, and 'P'
	pooh	means 'Pooh,' so it's a very important Missage to me, and I can't read it. I must find Christopher Robin or Owl or Piglet,
	pooh	one of those Clever Readers who can read things, and they will tell me what this missage means.
	pooh	Only I can't swim. Bother! If a bottle can float, then a jar can float, and if a jar floats,
	pooh	I can sit on the top of it, if it's a very big jar. All boats have to have a name,
	pooh	so I shall call mine _The Floating Bear_.
	narrator	And with these words he dropped his boat into the water and jumped in after it.
	narrator	For a little while Pooh and _The Floating Bear_ were uncertain as to which of them was meant to be on the top,
	narrator	but after trying one or two different positions, they settled down with _The Floating Bear_ underneath and Pooh triumphantly astride it,
	narrator	paddling vigorously with his feet. Christopher Robin lived at the very top of the Forest. It rained,
	narrator	and it rained, and it rained, but the water couldn't come up to _his_ house. It was rather jolly to look down into the valleys and see the water all round him,
	narrator	but it rained so hard that he stayed indoors most of the time, and thought about things.
	narrator	Every morning he went out with his umbrella and put a stick in the place where the water came up to,
	narrator	and every next morning he went out and couldn't see his stick any more, so he put another stick in the place where the water came up to,
	narrator	and then he walked home again, and each morning he had a shorter way to walk than he had had the morning before.
	narrator	On the morning of the fifth day he saw the water all round him, and knew that for the first time in his life he was on a real island.
	narrator	Which was very exciting. It was on this morning that Owl came flying over the water to say "How do you do,"
	narrator	to his friend Christopher Robin.
	christopher robin	I say, Owl, isn't this fun? I'm on an island!
	owl	The atmospheric conditions have been very unfavourable lately.
	christopher robin	The what?
	owl	It has been raining, explained Owl.
	christopher robin	Yes, there is.
	owl	The flood-level has reached an unprecedented height.
	christopher robin	The who?
	owl	There's a lot of water about, explained Owl.
	christopher robin	Yes, there is.
	owl	However, the prospects are rapidly becoming more favourable. At any moment----
	christopher robin	Have you seen Pooh?
	owl	No. At any moment----
	christopher robin	I hope he's all right, I've been wondering about him. I expect Piglet's with him. Do you think they're all right,
	christopher robin	Owl?
	owl	I expect so. You see, at any moment----
	christopher robin	Do go and see, Owl. Because Pooh hasn't got very much brain, and he might do something silly,
	christopher robin	and I do love him so, Owl. Do you see, Owl?
	owl	That's all right, I'll go. Back directly.
	narrator	And he flew off. In a little while he was back again.
	owl	Pooh isn't there,
	christopher robin	Not there?
	owl	Has _been_ there. He's been sitting on a branch of his tree outside his house with nine pots of honey.
	owl	But he isn't there now.
	christopher robin	Oh, Pooh!
	pooh	Here I am,
	narrator	said a growly voice behind him.
	christopher robin	Pooh!
	narrator	They rushed into each other's arms.
	christopher robin	How did you get here, Pooh?
	pooh	On my boat, I had a Very Important Missage sent me in a bottle, and owing to having got some water in my eyes,
	pooh	I couldn't read it, so I brought it to you. On my boat.
	narrator	With these proud words he gave Christopher Robin the missage.
	christopher robin	But it's from Piglet!
	pooh	Isn't there anything about Pooh in it?
	christopher robin	Oh, are those 'P's' piglets? I thought they were poohs. We must rescue him at once!
	christopher robin	I thought he was with _you_, Pooh. Owl, could you rescue him on your back?
	owl	I don't think so, after grave thought. "It is doubtful if the necessary dorsal muscles----
	christopher robin	Then would you fly to him at _once_ and say that Rescue is Coming? And Pooh and I will think of a Rescue and come as quick as ever we can.
	christopher robin	Oh, don't _talk_, Owl, go on quick!
	narrator	And, still thinking of something to say, Owl flew off.
	christopher robin	Now then, Pooh, where's your boat?
	pooh	I ought to say, explained Pooh as they walked down to the shore of the island,
	pooh	"that it isn't just an ordinary sort of boat. Sometimes it's a Boat, and sometimes it's more of an Accident.
	pooh	It all depends.
	christopher robin	Depends on what?
	pooh	On whether I'm on the top of it or underneath it.
	christopher robin	Oh! Well, where is it?
	pooh	There!
	narrator	said Pooh, pointing proudly to _The Floating Bear_. It wasn't what Christopher Robin expected, and the more he looked at it,
	narrator	the more he thought what a Brave and Clever Bear Pooh was, and the more
	christopher robin	But it's too small for two of us,
	narrator	said Christopher Robin sadly.
	pooh	Three of us with Piglet.
	christopher robin	That makes it smaller still. Oh, Pooh Bear, what shall we do?
	narrator	And then this Bear, Pooh Bear, Winnie-the-Pooh, F.O.P. (Friend of Piglet's), R.C. (Rabbit's Companion), P.D. (Pole Discoverer),
	narrator	E.C. and T.F. (Eeyore's Comforter and Tail-finder)--in fact, Pooh himself--said something so clever that Christopher Robin could only look at him with mouth open and eyes staring,
	narrator	wondering if this was really the Bear of Very Little Brain whom he had known and loved so long.
	pooh	We might go in your umbrella,
	christopher robin	?
	pooh	We might go in your umbrella,
	christopher robin	? ?
	pooh	We might go in your umbrella,
	christopher robin	!!!!!!
	narrator	For suddenly Christopher Robin saw that they might. He opened his umbrella and put it point downwards in the water.
	narrator	It floated but wobbled. Pooh got in. He was just beginning to say that it was all right now,
	narrator	when he found that it wasn't, so after a short drink which he didn't really want he waded back to Christopher Robin.
	narrator	Then they both got in together, and it wobbled no longer.
	christopher robin	I shall call this boat _The Brain of Pooh_,
	narrator	said Christopher Robin, and _The Brain of Pooh_ set sail forthwith in a south-westerly direction, revolving gracefully.
	narrator	You can imagine Piglet's joy when at last the ship came in sight of him. In after-years he liked to think that he had been in Very Great Danger during the Terrible Flood,
	narrator	but the only danger he had really been in was in the last half-hour of his imprisonment,
	narrator	when Owl, who had just flown up, sat on a branch of his tree to comfort him,
	narrator	and told him a very long story about an aunt who had once laid a seagull's egg by mistake,
	narrator	and the story went on and on, rather like this sentence, until Piglet who was listening out of his window without much hope,
	narrator	went to sleep quietly and naturally, slipping slowly out of the window towards the water until he was only hanging on by his toes,
	narrator	at which moment luckily, a sudden loud squawk from Owl, which was really part of the story,
	narrator	being what his aunt said, woke the Piglet up and just gave him time to jerk himself back into safety and say,
	narrator	"How interesting, and did she?" when--well, you can imagine his joy when at last he saw the good ship,
	narrator	_Brain of Pooh_ (_Captain_, C. Robin; _1st Mate_, P. Bear) coming over the sea to rescue him.
	narrator	Christopher Robin and Pooh again.... And that is really the end of the story, and I am very tired after that last sentence,
	narrator	I think I shall stop there.
