	narrator	Nobody seemed to know where they came from, but there they were in the Forest: Kanga and Baby Roo.
	pooh	How did they come here?
	christopher robin	In the Usual Way, if you know what I mean, Pooh,
	pooh	Oh!
	narrator	Then he nodded his head twice and said,
	pooh	In the Usual Way. Ah!
	narrator	Then he went to call upon his friend Piglet to see what he thought about it.
	narrator	And at Piglet's house he found Rabbit. So they all talked about it together.
	rabbit	What I don't like about it is this, Here are we--you, Pooh, and you, Piglet, and Me--and suddenly----
	pooh	And Eeyore,
	rabbit	And Eeyore--and then suddenly----
	pooh	And Owl,
	rabbit	And Owl--and then all of a sudden----
	pooh	Oh, and Eeyore, I was forgetting him.
	rabbit	Here--we--are, all--of--us, and then, suddenly, we wake up one morning and, what do we find? We find a Strange Animal among us.
	rabbit	An animal of whom we have never even heard before! An animal who carries her family about with her in her pocket!
	rabbit	Suppose I carried my family about with me in my pocket, how many pockets should I want?
	piglet	Sixteen,
	narrator	"Seventeen, isn't it?" said Rabbit. "And one more for a handkerchief--that's eighteen. Eighteen pockets in one suit!
	narrator	I haven't time." There was a long and thoughtful silence ... and then Pooh, who had been frowning very hard for some minutes,
	narrator	said: "_I_ make it fifteen." "What?" said Rabbit. "Fifteen." "Fifteen what?" "Your family." "What about them?"
	narrator	Pooh rubbed his nose and said that he thought Rabbit had been talking about his family.
	narrator	"Did I?" said Rabbit carelessly. "Yes, you said----" "Never mind, Pooh," said Piglet impatiently. "The question is,
	narrator	What are we to do about Kanga?" "Oh, I see," said Pooh. "The best way," said Rabbit,
	narrator	"would be this. The best way would be to steal Baby Roo and hide him, and then when Kanga says,
	narrator	'Where's Baby Roo?' we say, '_Aha!_'" "_Aha!_" said Pooh, practising. "_Aha! Aha!_ ... Of course," he went on,
	narrator	"we could say 'Aha!' even if we hadn't stolen Baby Roo." "Pooh," said Rabbit kindly, "you haven't any brain."
	narrator	"I know," said Pooh humbly.
	rabbit	We say '_Aha!_' so that Kanga knows that _we_ know where Baby Roo is. _Aha!_' means 'We'll tell you where Baby Roo is,
	rabbit	if you promise to go away from the Forest and never come back. Now don't talk while I think.
	narrator	Pooh went into a corner and tried saying 'Aha!' in that sort of voice. Sometimes it seemed to him that it did mean what Rabbit said,
	narrator	and sometimes it seemed to him that it didn't.
	pooh	I suppose it's just practice,
	narrator	he thought.
	pooh	I wonder if Kanga will have to practise too so as to understand it.
	piglet	There's just one thing, I was talking to Christopher Robin, and he said that a Kanga was Generally Regarded as One of the Fiercer Animals.
	piglet	I am not frightened of Fierce Animals in the ordinary way, but it is well known that,
	piglet	if One of the Fiercer Animals is Deprived of Its Young, it becomes as fierce as Two of the Fiercer Animals.
	piglet	In which case '_Aha!_' is perhaps a _foolish_ thing to say.
	rabbit	Piglet, you haven't any pluck.
	piglet	It is hard to be brave, when you're only a Very Small Animal.
	rabbit	It is because you are a very small animal that you will be Useful in the adventure before us.
	piglet	What about me?
	pooh	I suppose _I_ shan't be useful?
	piglet	Never mind, Pooh.
	narrator	said Piglet comfortingly
	piglet	Another time perhaps.
	rabbit	Without Pooh,
	narrator	said Rabbit solemnly as he sharpened his pencil
	rabbit	the adventure would be impossible.
	piglet	Oh!
	narrator	and tried not to look disappointed. But Pooh went into a corner of the room and said proudly to himself,
	pooh	Impossible without Me! That sort of Bear.
	rabbit	Now listen all of you,
	narrator	said Rabbit when he had finished writing, and Pooh and Piglet sat listening very eagerly with their mouths open.
	narrator	This was what Rabbit read out:
	rabbit	PLAN TO CAPTURE BABY ROO 1. General Remarks. Kanga runs faster than any of Us, even Me.
	rabbit	2. More General Remarks. Kanga never takes her eye off Baby Roo, except when he's safely buttoned up in her pocket.
	rabbit	3. Therefore. If we are to capture Baby Roo, we must get a Long Start, because Kanga runs faster than any of Us,
	rabbit	even Me. (See 1.) 4. A Thought. If Roo had jumped out of Kanga's pocket and Piglet had jumped in,
	rabbit	Kanga wouldn't know the difference, because Piglet is a Very Small Animal. 5. Like Roo. 6.
	rabbit	But Kanga would have to be looking the other way first, so as not to see Piglet jumping in.
	rabbit	7. See 2. 8. Another Thought. But if Pooh was talking to her very excitedly, she might look the other way for a moment.
	rabbit	9. And then I could run away with Roo. 10. Quickly. 11. And Kanga wouldn't discover the difference until Afterwards.
	narrator	Well, Rabbit read this out proudly, and for a little while after he had read it nobody said anything.
	narrator	And then Piglet, who had been opening and shutting his mouth without making any noise, managed to say very huskily
	piglet	And--Afterwards?
	rabbit	How do you mean?
	piglet	When Kanga _does_ Discover the Difference?
	narrator	Then we all say '_Aha!_'
	piglet	All three of us?
	rabbit	Yes.
	piglet	Oh!
	rabbit	Why, what's the trouble, Piglet?
	piglet	Nothing, as long as _we all three_ say it. I don't mind, but I shouldn't care to say '_Aha!_'
	piglet	by myself. It wouldn't sound _nearly_ so well. By the way, you _are_ quite sure about what you said about the winter months?
	rabbit	The winter months?
	piglet	Yes, only being Fierce in the Winter Months.
	rabbit	Oh, yes, yes, that's all right. Well, Pooh? You see what you have to do?
	pooh bear	No. Not yet, What _do_ I do?
	rabbit	Well, you just have to talk very hard to Kanga so as she doesn't notice anything.
	pooh bear	Oh! What about?
	rabbit	Anything you like.
	pooh bear	You mean like telling her a little bit of poetry or something?
	rabbit	That's it, Splendid. Now come along.
	narrator	So they all went out to look for Kanga. Kanga and Roo were spending a quiet afternoon in a sandy part of the Forest.
	narrator	Baby Roo was practising very small jumps in the sand, and falling down mouse-holes and climbing out of them,
	narrator	and Kanga was fidgeting about and saying "Just one more jump, dear, and then we must go home."
	narrator	And at that moment who should come stumping up the hill but Pooh.
	pooh bear	Good afternoon, Kanga.
	kanga	Good afternoon, Pooh.
	baby roo	Look at me jumping,
	narrator	and fell into another mouse-hole.
	pooh bear	Hallo, Roo, my little fellow!
	kanga	We were just going home. Good afternoon, Rabbit. Good afternoon, Piglet.
	rabbit	Good afternoon,
	piglet	Good afternoon,
	rabbit	Hallo, Roo,
	piglet	Hallo, Roo,
	baby roo	Roo asked them to look at him jumping, so they stayed and looked.
	narrator	And Kanga looked too....
	pooh bear	Oh, Kanga, I don't know if you are interested in Poetry at all?
	kanga	Hardly at all,
	pooh bear	Oh!
	kanga	Roo, dear, just one more jump and then we must go home.
	narrator	There was a short silence while Roo fell down another mouse-hole.
	rabbit	Go on, in a loud whisper behind his paw.
	pooh bear	Talking of Poetry, I made up a little piece as I was coming along. It went like this.
	pooh bear	Er--now let me see----
	kanga	Fancy! Now Roo, dear----
	rabbit	You'll like this piece of poetry,
	piglet	You'll love it,
	rabbit	You must listen very carefully,
	piglet	So as not to miss any of it,
	kanga	Oh, yes, but she still looked at Baby Roo.
	rabbit	_How_ did it go, Pooh?
	pooh bear	Pooh gave a little cough and began.
	narrator	LINES WRITTEN BY A BEAR OF VERY LITTLE BRAIN On Monday, when the sun is hot I wonder to myself a lot: 'Now is it true,
	narrator	or is it not,' 'That what is which and which is what?' On Tuesday, when it hails and snows,
	narrator	The feeling on me grows and grows That hardly anybody knows If those are these or these are those.
	narrator	On Wednesday, when the sky is blue, And I have nothing else to do, I sometimes wonder if it's true That who is what and what is who.
	narrator	On Thursday, when it starts to freeze And hoar-frost twinkles on the trees, How very readily one sees That these are whose--but whose are these?
	narrator	On Friday----
	kanga	Yes, it is, isn't it?
	narrator	said Kanga, not waiting to hear what happened on Friday.
	kanga	Just one more jump, Roo, dear, and then we really _must_ be going.
	narrator	Rabbit gave Pooh a hurrying-up sort of nudge.
	pooh	Talking of Poetry,
	narrator	said Pooh quickly, "have you ever noticed that tree right over there?"
	kanga	Where?
	narrator	said Kanga. "Now, Roo----"
	pooh	Right over there,
	narrator	said Pooh, pointing behind Kanga's back.
	kanga	No, Now jump in, Roo, dear, and we'll go home.
	rabbit	You ought to look at that tree right over there, Shall I lift you in, Roo?
	narrator	And he picked up Roo in his paws.
	pooh	I can see a bird in it from here, Or is it a fish?
	rabbit	You ought to see that bird from here, Unless it's a fish.
	piglet	It isn't a fish, it's a bird,
	rabbit	So it is,
	pooh	Is it a starling or a blackbird?
	rabbit	That's the whole question, Is it a blackbird or a starling?
	narrator	And then at last Kanga did turn her head to look. And the moment that her head was turned,
	narrator	Rabbit said in a loud voice
	rabbit	In you go, Roo!
	narrator	and in jumped Piglet into Kanga's pocket, and off scampered Rabbit, with Roo in his paws,
	narrator	as fast as he could.
	kanga	Why, where's Rabbit? Are you all right, Roo, dear?
	narrator	Piglet made a squeaky Roo-noise from the bottom of Kanga's pocket.
	pooh	Rabbit had to go away, I think he thought of something he had to go and see about suddenly.
	kanga	And Piglet?
	pooh	I think Piglet thought of something at the same time. Suddenly.
	kanga	Well, we must be getting home, Good-bye, Pooh.
	narrator	And in three large jumps she was gone.
	pooh	I wish I could jump like that,
	narrator	he thought. "Some can and some can't. That's how it is." But there were moments when Piglet wished that Kanga couldn't.
	narrator	Often, when he had had a long walk home through the Forest, he had wished that he were a bird; but now he thought jerkily to himself at the bottom of Kanga's pocket,
	narrator	"If I could fly I should never take it." And as he went up in the air he said,
	narrator	"_Ooooooo!_" and as he came down he said, "_Ow!_" And he was saying, "_Ooooooo-ow, Ooooooo-ow, Ooooooo-ow_"
	narrator	all the way to Kanga's house. Of course as soon as Kanga unbuttoned her pocket, she saw what had happened.
	narrator	Just for a moment, she thought she was frightened, and then she knew she wasn't; for she felt quite sure that Christopher Robin would never let any harm happen to Roo.
	narrator	So she said to herself, "If they are having a joke with me, I will have a joke with them."
	kanga	Now then, Roo, dear,
	narrator	she said, as she took Piglet out of her pocket.
	kanga	Bed-time.
	piglet	Aha!
	narrator	as well as he could after his Terrifying Journey But it wasn't a very good "Aha!"
	narrator	and Kanga didn't seem to understand what it meant
	kanga	Bath first,
	narrator	said Kanga in a cheerful voice.
	piglet	Aha!
	narrator	said Piglet again, looking round anxiously for the others. But the others weren't there. Rabbit was playing with Baby Roo in his own house,
	narrator	and feeling more fond of him every minute, and Pooh, who had decided to be a Kanga,
	narrator	was still at the sandy place on the top of the Forest, practising jumps.
	kanga	I am not at all sure,
	narrator	said Kanga in a thoughtful voice, "that it wouldn't be a good idea to have a cold bath this evening.
	narrator	Would you like that, Roo, dear?"
	piglet	Kanga, I see that the time has come to spleak painly.
	kanga	Funny little Roo,
	narrator	said Kanga, as she got the bath-water ready.
	piglet	I am not Roo,
	narrator	said Piglet loudly. "I am Piglet!"
	kanga	Yes, dear, yes,
	narrator	said Kanga soothingly. "And imitating Piglet's voice too! So clever of him," she went on, as she took a large bar of yellow soap out of the cupboard.
	narrator	"What will he be doing next?"
	piglet	Can't you see?
	narrator	shouted Piglet. "Haven't you got eyes? Look at me!"
	kanga	I am looking, Roo, dear,
	narrator	said Kanga rather severely. "And you know what I told you yesterday about making faces. If you go on making faces like Piglet's,
	narrator	you will grow up to look like Piglet--and then think how sorry you will be. Now then,
	narrator	into the bath, and don't let me have to speak to you about it again." Before he knew where he was,
	narrator	Piglet was in the bath, and Kanga was scrubbing him firmly with a large lathery flannel.
	piglet	Ow!
	narrator	cried Piglet. "Let me out! I'm Piglet!"
	kanga	Don't open the mouth, dear, or the soap goes in,
	narrator	said Kanga. "There! What did I tell you?"
	piglet	You--you--you did it on purpose,
	narrator	spluttered Piglet, as soon as he could speak again ... and then accidentally had another mouthful of lathery flannel.
	kanga	That's right, dear, don't say anything,
	narrator	said Kanga, and in another minute Piglet was out of the bath, and being rubbed dry with a towel.
	kanga	Now,
	narrator	said Kanga, "there's your medicine, and then bed."
	piglet	W-w-what medicine?
	narrator	- Kanga (female): A large kangaroo who carries her baby, Baby Roo, in her pocket. She is described as fierce during winter months but affectionate at other times.
	narrator	She is practical and caring, teaching Baby Roo to jump while also being protective of him.
	narrator	- Baby Roo (male): Kanga's young child who is learning to jump in the sand. He is playful and curious,
	narrator	often falling into mouse holes while practicing his jumps. - Pooh (male): A bear who is the main character in the story.
	narrator	He is simple-minded but kind-hearted, often misunderstood by others. In this chapter he helps with the plan to capture Baby Roo.
	narrator	- Rabbit (male): A clever and organized rabbit who leads the group. He is practical, makes plans,
	narrator	and takes charge of situations. In this chapter he devises the plan to capture Baby Roo.
	narrator	- Piglet (male): A small, timid rabbit who is easily frightened but eager to be helpful.
	narrator	He becomes the substitute for Baby Roo in Kanga's pocket during the plan. - Christopher Robin (*male): A young boy who is the owner of the toys and animals in the forest.
	narrator	He knows all the characters well and helps resolve conflicts between them. - Eeyore (*male): A donkey who is mentioned as being present in the group discussion but does not play a major role in this chapter.
	narrator	- Owl (*male): An owl who is mentioned as being present in the group discussion but does not play a major role in this chapter.
	narrator	PASSAGE: "To make you grow big and strong, dear. You don't want to grow up small and weak like Piglet,
	narrator	do you? Well, then!" At that moment there was a knock at the door.
	kanga	Come in
	narrator	and in came Christopher Robin.
	piglet	Christopher Robin, Christopher Robin! Tell Kanga who I am! She keeps saying I'm Roo. I'm not Roo,
	piglet	am I?
	christopher robin	You can't be Roo,
	narrator	he said, "because I've just seen Roo playing in Rabbit's house."
	kanga	Fancy that! Fancy my making a mistake like that.
	piglet	There you are! I told you so. I'm Piglet.
	christopher robin	Oh, you're not Piglet,
	narrator	he said. "I know Piglet well, and he's quite a different colour." Piglet began to say that this was because he had just had a bath,
	narrator	and then he thought that perhaps he wouldn't say that, and as he opened his mouth to say something else,
	narrator	Kanga slipped the medicine spoon in, and then patted him on the back and told him that it was really quite a nice taste when you got used to it.
	kanga	I knew it wasn't Piglet. I wonder who it can be.
	christopher robin	Perhaps it's some relation of Pooh's,
	narrator	he said. "What about a nephew or an uncle or something?"
	kanga	I shall call it Pootel,
	christopher robin	Henry Pootel for short.
	narrator	And just when it was decided, Henry Pootel wriggled out of Kanga's arms and jumped to the ground.
	narrator	To his great joy Christopher Robin had left the door open. Never had Henry Pootel Piglet run so fast as he ran then,
	narrator	and he didn't stop running until he had got quite close to his house. But when he was a hundred yards away he stopped running,
	narrator	and rolled the rest of the way home, so as to get his own nice comfortable colour again....
	narrator	So Kanga and Roo stayed in the Forest. And every Tuesday Roo spent the day with his great friend Rabbit,
	narrator	and every Tuesday Kanga spent the day with her great friend Pooh, teaching him to jump,
	narrator	and every Tuesday Piglet spent the day with his great friend Christopher Robin. So they were all happy again.
