	narrator	Edward Bear, known to his friends as Winnie-the-Pooh, or Pooh for short, was walking through the forest one day,
	narrator	humming proudly to himself. He had made up a little hum that very morning, as he was doing his Stoutness Exercises in front of the glass: _Tra-la-la,
	narrator	tra-la-la_, as he stretched up as high as he could go, and then _Tra-la-la, tra-la--oh, help!--la_,
	narrator	as he tried to reach his toes. After breakfast he had said it over and over to himself until he had learnt it off by heart,
	narrator	and now he was humming it right through, properly. It went like this: _Tra-la-la, tra-la-la,_ _Tra-la-la,
	narrator	tra-la-la,_ _Rum-tum-tiddle-um-tum._ _Tiddle-iddle, tiddle-iddle,_ _Tiddle-iddle, tiddle-iddle,_ _Rum-tum-tum-tiddle-um._ Well, he was humming this hum to himself, and walking along gaily,
	narrator	wondering what everybody else was doing, and what it felt like, being somebody else, when suddenly he came to a sandy bank,
	narrator	and in the bank was a large hole.
	pooh	Aha! If I know anything about anything, that hole means Rabbit, and Rabbit means Company, and Company means Food and Listening-to-Me-Humming and such like.
	pooh	So he bent down, put his head into the hole, and called out: Is anybody at home?
	narrator	There was a sudden scuffling noise from inside the hole, and then silence.
	pooh	What I said was, 'Is anybody at home?
	rabbit	No! You needn't shout so loud. I heard you quite well the first time.
	pooh	Bother! Isn't there anybody here at all?
	rabbit	Nobody.
	narrator	Winnie-the-Pooh took his head out of the hole, and thought for a little, and he thought to himself,
	narrator	'There must be somebody there, because somebody must have _said_ 'Nobody.'
	pooh	Hallo, Rabbit, isn't that you?
	rabbit	No.
	pooh	But isn't that Rabbit's voice?
	rabbit	I don't _think_ so. It isn't _meant_ to be.
	pooh	Oh! Well, could you very kindly tell me where Rabbit is?
	rabbit	He has gone to see his friend Pooh Bear, who is a great friend of his.
	pooh	But this _is_ Me! What sort of Me? Pooh Bear.
	rabbit	Are you sure?
	pooh	Quite, quite sure.
	rabbit	Oh, well, then, come in.
	narrator	So Pooh pushed and pushed and pushed his way through the hole, and at last he got in.
	rabbit	You were quite right, looking at him all over. It _is_ you. Glad to see you.
	rabbit	Who did you think it was? Well, I wasn't sure. You know how it is in the Forest.
	rabbit	One can't have _anybody_ coming into one's house. One has to be _careful_. What about a mouthful of something?
	narrator	Pooh always liked a little something at eleven o'clock in the morning, and he was very glad to see Rabbit getting out the plates and mugs; and when Rabbit said,
	narrator	'Honey or condensed milk with your bread?' he was so excited that he said, 'Both,' and then,
	narrator	so as not to seem greedy, he added, 'But don't bother about the bread, please.' And for a long time after that he said nothing ...
	narrator	until at last, humming to himself in a rather sticky voice, he got up, shook Rabbit lovingly by the paw,
	narrator	and said that he must be going on.
	rabbit	Must you?
	pooh	Well, I could stay a little longer if it--if you----
	narrator	and he tried very hard to look in the direction of the larder.
	rabbit	As a matter of fact, I was going out myself directly.
	pooh	Oh, well, then, I'll be going on. Good-bye.
	rabbit	Well, good-bye, if you're sure you won't have any more.
	pooh	Is there any more?
	narrator	Rabbit took the covers off the dishes, and said,
	rabbit	No, there wasn't.
	pooh	I thought not. Well, good-bye. I must be going on.
	narrator	So he started to climb out of the hole. He pulled with his front paws, and pushed with his back paws,
	narrator	and in a little while his nose was out in the open again ... and then his ears ...
	narrator	and then his front paws ... and then his shoulders ... and then----
	pooh	Oh, help! I'd better go back. Oh, bother! I shall have to go on. I can't do either!
	pooh	Oh, help _and_ bother!
	narrator	Now by this time Rabbit wanted to go for a walk too, and finding the front door full,
	narrator	he went out by the back door, and came round to Pooh, and looked at him.
	rabbit	Hallo, are you stuck?
	pooh	N-no, Just resting and thinking and humming to myself.
	rabbit	Here, give us a paw.
	narrator	Pooh Bear stretched out a paw, and Rabbit pulled and pulled and pulled....
	pooh	Ow! You're hurting!
	rabbit	The fact is, you're stuck.
	pooh	It all comes, of not having front doors big enough.
	rabbit	It all comes, of eating too much. I thought at the time, only I didn't like to say anything,
	rabbit	that one of us was eating too much, and I knew if wasn't _me_, he said.
	rabbit	Well, well, I shall go and fetch Christopher Robin.
	narrator	Christopher Robin lived at the other end of the Forest, and when he came back with Rabbit,
	narrator	and saw the front half of Pooh, he said,
	christopher robin	Silly old Bear,
	narrator	in such a loving voice that everybody felt quite hopeful again.
	pooh	I was just beginning to think, that Rabbit might never be able to use his front door again.
	pooh	And I should _hate_ that, he said.
	rabbit	So should I.
	christopher robin	Use his front door again? Of course he'll use his front door again.
	rabbit	Good.
	christopher robin	If we can't pull you out, Pooh, we might push you back.
	narrator	Rabbit scratched his whiskers thoughtfully, and pointed out that, when once Pooh was pushed back, he was back,
	narrator	and of course nobody was more glad to see Pooh than _he_ was, still there it was,
	narrator	some lived in trees and some lived underground, and----
	pooh	You mean I'd _never_ get out?
	rabbit	I mean, that having got _so_ far, it seems a pity to waste it.
	christopher robin	Christopher Robin nodded. Then there's only one thing to be done, We shall have to wait for you to get thin again.
	pooh	How long does getting thin take?
	christopher robin	About a week, I should think.
	pooh	But I can't stay here for a _week_!
	christopher robin	You can _stay_ here all right, silly old Bear. It's getting you out which is so difficult.
	rabbit	We'll read to you, And I hope it won't snow, And I say, old fellow, you're taking up a good deal of room in my house--_do_ you mind if I use your back legs as a towel-horse?
	rabbit	Because, I mean, there they are--doing nothing--and it would be very convenient just to hang the towels on them.
	pooh	A week! _What about meals?_
	christopher robin	I'm afraid no meals, because of getting thin quicker. But we _will_ read to you.
	narrator	Bear began to sigh, and then found he couldn't because he was so tightly stuck; and a tear rolled down his eye,
	narrator	as he said:
	pooh	Then would you read a Sustaining Book, such as would help and comfort a Wedged Bear in Great Tightness?
	narrator	So for a week Christopher Robin read that sort of book at the North end of Pooh,
	narrator	and Rabbit hung his washing on the South end ... and in between Bear felt himself getting slenderer and slenderer.
	narrator	And at the end of the week Christopher Robin said, "_Now!_" So he took hold of Pooh's front paws and Rabbit took hold of Christopher Robin,
	narrator	and all Rabbit's friends and relations took hold of Rabbit, and they all pulled together.... And for a long time Pooh only said "_Ow!_"
	narrator	... And "_Oh!_" ... And then, all of a sudden, he said "_Pop!_" just as if a cork were coming out of a bottle.
	narrator	And Christopher Robin and Rabbit and all Rabbit's friends and relations went head-over-heels backwards ... and on the top of them came Winnie-the-Pooh--free!
	narrator	So, with a nod of thanks to his friends, he went on with his walk through the forest,
	narrator	humming proudly to himself. But, Christopher Robin looked after him lovingly, and said to himself,
	christopher robin	Silly old Bear!
