	narrator	One day, when Christopher Robin and Winnie-the-Pooh and Piglet were all talking together, Christopher Robin finished the mouthful he was eating and said carelessly:
	christopher robin	I saw a Heffalump to-day, Piglet.
	piglet	What was it doing?
	christopher robin	Just lumping along. I don't think it saw me.
	piglet	I saw one once. At least, I think I did. Only perhaps it wasn't.
	pooh	So did I, wondering what a Heffalump was like.
	christopher robin	You don't often see them.
	piglet	Not now.
	pooh	Not at this time of year.
	narrator	Then they all talked about something else, until it was time for Pooh and Piglet to go home together.
	narrator	At first as they stumped along the path which edged the Hundred Acre Wood, they didn't say much to each other; but when they came to the stream and had helped each other across the stepping stones,
	narrator	and were able to walk side by side again over the heather, they began to talk in a friendly way about this and that,
	narrator	and Piglet said,
	piglet	If you see what I mean, Pooh,
	pooh	It's just what I think myself, Piglet,
	piglet	But, on the other hand, Pooh, we must remember,
	pooh	Quite true, Piglet, although I had forgotten it for the moment.
	narrator	And then, just as they came to the Six Pine Trees, Pooh looked round to see that nobody else was listening,
	narrator	and said in a very solemn voice:
	pooh	Piglet, I have decided something.
	piglet	What have you decided, Pooh?
	pooh	I have decided to catch a Heffalump.
	narrator	Pooh nodded his head several times as he said this, and waited for Piglet to say "How?"
	narrator	or "Pooh, you couldn't!" or something helpful of that sort, but Piglet said nothing. The fact was Piglet was wishing that he had thought about it first.
	pooh	I shall do it," said Pooh, after waiting a little longer, "by means of a trap.
	pooh	And it must be a Cunning Trap, so you will have to help me, Piglet.
	piglet	Pooh," said Piglet, feeling quite happy again now, "I will." And then he said, How shall we do it?
	pooh	That's just it. How?
	narrator	And then they sat down together to think it out. Pooh's first idea was that they should dig a Very Deep Pit,
	narrator	and then the Heffalump would come along and fall into the Pit, and----
	piglet	Why?
	pooh	Why what?
	piglet	Why would he fall in?
	narrator	Pooh rubbed his nose with his paw, and said that the Heffalump might be walking along,
	narrator	humming a little song, and looking up at the sky, wondering if it would rain, and so he wouldn't see the Very Deep Pit until he was half-way down,
	narrator	when it would be too late.
	piglet	That's a very good Trap, but supposing it were raining already?
	narrator	Pooh rubbed his nose again, and said that he hadn't thought of that. And then he brightened up,
	narrator	and said that, if it were raining already, the Heffalump would be looking at the sky wondering if it would clear up,
	narrator	and so he wouldn't see the Very Deep Pit until he was half-way down.... When it would be too late.
	piglet	Now that this point had been explained, he thought it was a Cunning Trap.
	narrator	Pooh was very proud when he heard this, and he felt that the Heffalump was as good as caught already,
	narrator	but there was just one other thing which had to be thought about, and it was this.
	narrator	Where should they dig the Very Deep Pit?
	piglet	The best place would be somewhere where a Heffalump was, just before he fell into it,
	piglet	only about a foot farther on.
	pooh	But then he would see us digging it.
	piglet	Not if he was looking at the sky.
	pooh	He would Suspect, if he happened to look down.
	narrator	He thought for a long time and then added sadly, "It isn't as easy as I thought.
	narrator	I suppose that's why Heffalumps hardly ever get caught."
	piglet	That must be it.
	narrator	They sighed and got up; and when they had taken a few gorse prickles out of themselves they sat down again; and all the time Pooh was saying to himself,
	narrator	"If only I could think of something!" For he felt sure that a Very Clever Brain could catch a Heffalump if only he knew the right way to go about it.
	pooh	Suppose," he said to Piglet, "you wanted to catch me, how would you do it?
	piglet	Well," said Piglet, "I should do it like this. I should make a Trap, and I should put a Jar of Honey in the Trap,
	piglet	and you would smell it, and you would go in after it, and----
	pooh	And I would go in after it," said Pooh excitedly, "only very carefully so as not to hurt myself,
	pooh	and I would get to the Jar of Honey, and I should lick round the edges first of all,
	pooh	pretending that there wasn't any more, you know, and then I should walk away and think about it a little,
	pooh	and then I should come back and start licking in the middle of the jar, and then----
	piglet	Yes, well never mind about that. There you would be, and there I should catch you.
	piglet	Now the first thing to think of is, What do Heffalumps like? I should think acorns,
	piglet	shouldn't you? We'll get a lot of----I say, wake up, Pooh!
	narrator	Pooh, who had gone into a happy dream, woke up with a start, and said that Honey was a much more trappy thing than Haycorns.
	narrator	Piglet didn't think so; and they were just going to argue about it, when Piglet remembered that,
	narrator	if they put acorns in the Trap, he would have to find the acorns, but if they put honey,
	narrator	then Pooh would have to give up some of his own honey, so he said,
	piglet	All right, honey then," just as Pooh remembered it too, and was going to say,
	pooh	All right, haycorns.
	piglet	Honey," said Piglet to himself in a thoughtful way, as if it were now settled. "I'll dig the pit,
	piglet	while you go and get the honey.
	pooh	Very well," said Pooh, and he stumped off.
	narrator	As soon as he got home, he went to the larder; and he stood on a chair,
	narrator	and took down a very large jar of honey from the top shelf. It had HUNNY written on it,
	narrator	but, just to make sure, he took off the paper cover and looked at it, and it _looked_ just like honey.
	pooh	But you never can tell, I remember my uncle saying once that he had seen cheese just this colour.
	narrator	So he put his tongue in, and took a large lick.
	pooh	Yes, it is. No doubt about that. And honey, I should say, right down to the bottom of the jar.
	pooh	Unless, of course, somebody put cheese in at the bottom just for a joke. Perhaps I had better go a _little_ further ...
	pooh	just in case ... in case Heffalumps _don't_ like cheese ... same as me.... Ah!
	narrator	And he gave a deep sigh.
	pooh	I _was_ right. It _is_ honey, right the way down.
	narrator	Having made certain of this, he took the jar back to Piglet, and Piglet looked up from the bottom of his Very Deep Pit,
	narrator	and said,
	piglet	Got it?
	pooh	Yes, but it isn't quite a full jar, and he threw it down to Piglet, and Piglet said,
	piglet	No, it isn't! Is that all you've got left?
	pooh	Yes.
	narrator	Because it was. So Piglet put the jar at the bottom of the Pit, and climbed out,
	narrator	and they went off home together.
	piglet	Well, good night, Pooh,
	narrator	said Piglet, when they had got to Pooh's house.
	piglet	And we meet at six o'clock to-morrow morning by the Pine Trees, and see how many Heffalumps we've got in our Trap.
	pooh	Six o'clock, Piglet. And have you got any string?
	piglet	No. Why do you want string?
	pooh	To lead them home with.
	piglet	Oh! ... I _think_ Heffalumps come if you whistle.
	pooh	Some do and some don't. You never can tell with Heffalumps. Well, good night!
	piglet	Good night!
	narrator	And off Piglet trotted to his house TRESPASSERS W, while Pooh made his preparations for bed.
	narrator	Some hours later, just as the night was beginning to steal away, Pooh woke up suddenly with a sinking feeling.
	narrator	He had had that sinking feeling before, and he knew what it meant. He was hungry.
	narrator	So he went to the larder, and he stood on a chair and reached up to the top shelf,
	narrator	and found--nothing.
	pooh	That's funny,
	narrator	he thought.
	pooh	I know I had a jar of honey there. A full jar, full of honey right up to the top,
	pooh	and it had HUNNY written on it, so that I should know it was honey. That's very funny.
	narrator	And then he began to wander up and down, wondering where it was and murmuring a murmur to himself.
	narrator	Like this: It's very, very funny, 'Cos I _know_ I had some honey; 'Cos it had a label on,
	narrator	Saying HUNNY. A goloptious full-up pot too, And I don't know where it's got to, No,
	narrator	I don't know where it's gone-- Well, it's funny. He had murmured this to himself three times in a singing sort of way,
	narrator	when suddenly he remembered. He had put it into the Cunning Trap to catch the Heffalump.
	narrator	- Christopher Robin (male): A young boy who is friends with Pooh and Piglet. He saw a Heffalump and mentions it to the others,
	narrator	showing he is observant of his surroundings. He is practical and calm when dealing with Pooh's predicament,
	narrator	laughing at the situation rather than being frightened. - Winnie-the-Pooh (*male): A large, friendly bear who is curious about Heffalumps and decides to catch one using a trap.
	narrator	He is enthusiastic but somewhat naive, getting himself stuck in his own honey jar while trying to retrieve it.
	narrator	He is kind-hearted but easily distracted by honey. - Piglet (*male): A small, timid pig who is initially afraid of Heffalumps but becomes involved in Pooh's plan to catch one.
	narrator	He is thoughtful and practical, suggesting they use honey instead of acorns for the trap. He becomes frightened when he sees what appears to be a Heffalump and runs away.
	narrator	- Heffalump (*male): A mysterious creature that appears to be a large, headless being with no clear form.
	narrator	It is described as having an enormous head that looks like a jar, and it makes loud noises when frightened.
	narrator	It is not actually dangerous but causes fear due to its strange appearance. PASSAGE:
	pooh	Bother! It all comes of trying to be kind to Heffalumps.
	narrator	And he got back into bed. But he couldn't sleep. The more he tried to sleep,
	narrator	the more he couldn't. He tried Counting Sheep, which is sometimes a good way of getting to sleep,
	narrator	and, as that was no good, he tried counting Heffalumps. And that was worse. Because every Heffalump that he counted was making straight for a pot of Pooh's honey,
	narrator	and eating it all. For some minutes he lay there miserably, but when the five hundred and eighty-seventh Heffalump was licking its jaws,
	narrator	and saying to itself, "Very good honey this, I don't know when I've tasted better," Pooh could bear it no longer.
	narrator	He jumped out of bed, he ran out of the house, and he ran straight to the Six Pine Trees.
	narrator	The Sun was still in bed, but there was a lightness in the sky over the Hundred Acre Wood which seemed to show that it was waking up and would soon be kicking off the clothes.
	narrator	In the half-light the Pine Trees looked cold and lonely, and the Very Deep Pit seemed deeper than it was,
	narrator	and Pooh's jar of honey at the bottom was something mysterious, a shape and no more.
	narrator	But as he got nearer to it his nose told him that it was indeed honey,
	narrator	and his tongue came out and began to polish up his mouth, ready for it.
	pooh	Bother! A Heffalump has been eating it!
	narrator	And then he thought a little and said, "Oh, no, I did. I forgot." Indeed, he had eaten most of it.
	narrator	But there was a little left at the very bottom of the jar, and he pushed his head right in,
	narrator	and began to lick.... By and by Piglet woke up. As soon as he woke he said to himself,
	narrator	"Oh!" Then he said bravely, "Yes," and then, still more bravely, "Quite so." But he didn't feel very brave,
	narrator	for the word which was really jiggeting about in his brain was "Heffalumps." What was a Heffalump like?
	narrator	Was it Fierce? Did it come when you whistled? And how did it come? Was it Fond of Pigs at all?
	narrator	If it was Fond of Pigs, did it make any difference what sort of Pig? Supposing it was Fierce with Pigs,
	narrator	would it make any difference if the Pig had a grandfather called TRESPASSERS WILLIAM? He didn't know the answer to any of these questions ...
	narrator	and he was going to see his first Heffalump in about an hour from now! Of course Pooh would be with him,
	narrator	and it was much more Friendly with two. But suppose Heffalumps were Very Fierce with Pigs and Bears?
	narrator	Wouldn't it be better to pretend that he had a headache, and couldn't go up to the Six Pine Trees this morning?
	narrator	But then suppose that it was a very fine day, and there was no Heffalump in the trap,
	narrator	here he would be, in bed all the morning, simply wasting his time for nothing. What should he do?
	narrator	And then he had a Clever Idea. He would go up very quietly to the Six Pine Trees now,
	narrator	peep very cautiously into the Trap, and see if there was a Heffalump there. And if there was,
	narrator	he would go back to bed, and if there wasn't, he wouldn't. So off he went.
	narrator	At first he thought that there wouldn't be a Heffalump in the Trap, and then he thought that there would,
	narrator	and as he got nearer he was _sure_ that there would, because he could hear it heffalumping about it like anything.
	piglet	Oh, dear, oh, dear, oh, dear!
	narrator	And he wanted to run away. But somehow, having got so near, he felt that he must just see what a Heffalump was like.
	narrator	So he crept to the side of the Trap and looked in.... And all the time Winnie-the-Pooh had been trying to get the honey-jar off his head.
	narrator	The more he shook it, the more tightly it stuck.
	winnie-the-pooh	_Bother!_ Oh, help! Ow!
	narrator	And he tried bumping it against things, but as he couldn't see what he was bumping it against,
	narrator	it didn't help him; and he tried to climb out of the Trap, but as he could see nothing but jar,
	narrator	and not much of that, he couldn't find his way. So at last he lifted up his head,
	narrator	jar and all, and made a loud, roaring noise of Sadness and Despair ... and it was at that moment that Piglet looked down.
	piglet	Help, help! a Heffalump, a Horrible Heffalump! Help, help, a Herrible Hoffalump! Hoff, Hoff, a Hellible Horralump!
	piglet	Holl, Holl, a Hoffable Hellerump!
	narrator	And he didn't stop crying and scampering until he got to Christopher Robin's house.
	christopher robin	Whatever's the matter, Piglet?
	piglet	Heff a Heff--a Heff--a Heffalump.
	christopher robin	Where?
	piglet	Up there waving his paw.
	christopher robin	What did it look like?
	piglet	Like--like----It had the biggest head you ever saw, Christopher Robin. A great enormous thing, like--like nothing.
	piglet	A huge big--well, like a--I don't know--like an enormous big nothing. Like a jar.
	christopher robin	Well, I shall go and look at it. Come on.
	narrator	Piglet wasn't afraid if he had Christopher Robin with him, so off they went....
	piglet	I can hear it, can't you?
	christopher robin	I can hear _something_.
	narrator	It was Pooh bumping his head against a tree-root he had found.
	piglet	There! Isn't it _awful_?
	narrator	And he held on tight to Christopher Robin's hand. Suddenly Christopher Robin began to laugh ...
	narrator	and he laughed ... and he laughed ... and he laughed. And while he was still laughing--_Crash_ went the Heffalump's head against the tree-root,
	narrator	Smash went the jar, and out came Pooh's head again.... Then Piglet saw what a Foolish Piglet he had been,
	narrator	and he was so ashamed of himself that he ran straight off home and went to bed with a headache.
	narrator	But Christopher Robin and Pooh went home to breakfast together.
	christopher robin	Oh, Bear! How I do love you!
	winnie-the-pooh	So do I
