	narrator	The Old Grey Donkey, Eeyore, stood by himself in a thistly corner of the forest, his front feet well apart,
	narrator	his head on one side, and thought about things. Sometimes he thought sadly to himself, "Why?"
	narrator	and sometimes he thought, "Wherefore?" and sometimes he thought, "Inasmuch as which?"--and sometimes he didn't quite know what he _was_ thinking about.
	narrator	So when Winnie-the-Pooh came stumping along, Eeyore was very glad to be able to stop thinking for a little,
	narrator	in order to say "How do you do?" in a gloomy manner to him.
	winnie-the-pooh	And how are you?
	eeyore	Not very how, he said. "I don't seem to have felt at all how for a long time.
	winnie-the-pooh	Dear, dear, I'm sorry about that. Let's have a look at you.
	narrator	So Eeyore stood there, gazing sadly at the ground, and Winnie-the-Pooh walked all round him once.
	winnie-the-pooh	Why, what's happened to your tail?
	eeyore	What _has_ happened to it?
	winnie-the-pooh	It isn't there!
	eeyore	Are you sure?
	narrator	"Well, either a tail _is_ there or it isn't there. You can't make a mistake about it.
	narrator	And yours _isn't_ there!" "Then what is?" "Nothing." "Let's have a look," said Eeyore, and he turned slowly round to the place where his tail had been a little while ago,
	narrator	and then, finding that he couldn't catch it up, he turned round the other way, until he came back to where he was at first,
	narrator	and then he put his head down and looked between his front legs, and at last he said,
	narrator	with a long, sad sigh, "I believe you're right." "Of course I'm right," said Pooh. "That Accounts for a Good Deal,"
	narrator	said Eeyore gloomily. "It Explains Everything. No Wonder." "You must have left it somewhere," said Winnie-the-Pooh.
	narrator	"Somebody must have taken it," said Eeyore. "How Like Them," he added, after a long silence.
	narrator	Pooh felt that he ought to say something helpful about it, but didn't quite know what.
	narrator	So he decided to do something helpful instead. "Eeyore," he said solemnly, "I, Winnie-the-Pooh, will find your tail for you."
	narrator	"Thank you, Pooh," answered Eeyore. "You're a real friend," said he. "Not like Some," he said.
	narrator	So Winnie-the-Pooh went off to find Eeyore's tail. It was a fine spring morning in the forest as he started out.
	narrator	Little soft clouds played happily in a blue sky, skipping from time to time in front of the sun as if they had come to put it out,
	narrator	and then sliding away suddenly so that the next might have his turn. Through them and between them the sun shone bravely; and a copse which had worn its firs all the year round seemed old and dowdy now beside the new green lace which the beeches had put on
	narrator	so prettily. Through copse and spinney marched Bear; down open slopes of gorse and heather, over rocky beds of streams,
	narrator	up steep banks of sandstone into the heather again; and so at last, tired and hungry,
	narrator	to the Hundred Acre Wood. For it was in the Hundred Acre Wood that Owl lived.
	winnie-the-pooh	And if anyone knows anything about anything, it's Owl who knows something about something, or my name's not Winnie-the-Pooh,
	winnie-the-pooh	Which it is, So there you are.
	narrator	Owl lived at The Chestnuts, an old-world residence of great charm, which was grander than anybody else's,
	narrator	or seemed so to Bear, because it had both a knocker _and_ a bell-pull. Underneath the knocker there was a notice which said: PLES RING IF AN RNSER IS REQIRD.
	narrator	Underneath the bell-pull there was a notice which said: PLEZ CNOKE IF AN RNSR IS NOT REQID.
	narrator	These notices had been written by Christopher Robin, who was the only one in the forest who could spell; for Owl,
	narrator	wise though he was in many ways, able to read and write and spell his own name WOL,
	narrator	yet somehow went all to pieces over delicate words like MEASLES and BUTTEREDTOAST.
	winnie-the-pooh	Winnie-the-Pooh read the two notices very carefully, first from left to right, and afterwards, in case he had missed some of it,
	winnie-the-pooh	from right to left. Then, to make quite sure, he knocked and pulled the knocker, and he pulled and knocked the bell-rope,
	winnie-the-pooh	and he called out in a very loud voice, Owl! I require an answer! It's Bear speaking.
	narrator	And the door opened, and Owl looked out.
	owl	Hallo, Pooh, How's things?
	winnie-the-pooh	Terrible and Sad, because Eeyore, who is a friend of mine, has lost his tail. And he's Moping about it.
	winnie-the-pooh	So could you very kindly tell me how to find it for him?
	owl	Well, the customary procedure in such cases is as follows.
	winnie-the-pooh	What does Crustimoney Proseedcake mean? For I am a Bear of Very Little Brain, and long words Bother me.
	owl	It means the Thing to Do.
	winnie-the-pooh	As long as it means that, I don't mind, said Pooh humbly.
	owl	The thing to do is as follows. First, Issue a Reward.
	winnie-the-pooh	Just a moment, said Pooh, holding up his paw. What do we do to this--what you were saying?
	winnie-the-pooh	You sneezed just as you were going to tell me.
	owl	I _didn't_ sneeze.
	winnie-the-pooh	Yes, you did, Owl.
	owl	Excuse me, Pooh, I didn't. You can't sneeze without knowing it.
	winnie-the-pooh	Well, you can't know it without something having been sneezed.
	owl	What I _said_ was, 'First _Issue_ a Reward'.
	winnie-the-pooh	You're doing it again, said Pooh sadly.
	owl	A Reward! We write a notice to say that we will give a large something to anybody who finds Eeyore's tail.
	pooh	I see, I see, Talking about large somethings, I generally have a small something about now--about this time in the morning,
	pooh	just a mouthful of condensed milk or whatnot, with perhaps a lick of honey----
	owl	Well, then, we write out this notice, and we put it up all over the forest.
	pooh	A lick of honey, or--or not, as the case may be.
	narrator	And he gave a deep sigh, and tried very hard to listen to what Owl was saying.
	narrator	But Owl went on and on, using longer and longer words, until at last he came back to where he started,
	narrator	and he explained that the person to write out this notice was Christopher Robin.
	owl	It was he who wrote the ones on my front door for me. Did you see them,
	owl	Pooh?
	narrator	For some time now Pooh had been saying "Yes" and "No" in turn, with his eyes shut,
	narrator	to all that Owl was saying, and having said, "Yes, yes," last time, he said "No,
	narrator	not at all," now, without really knowing what Owl was talking about.
	owl	Didn't you see them?
	narrator	said Owl, a little surprised. "Come and look at them now." So they went outside. And Pooh looked at the knocker and the notice below it,
	narrator	and he looked at the bell-rope and the notice below it, and the more he looked at the bell-rope,
	narrator	the more he felt that he had seen something like it, somewhere else, sometime before.
	owl	Handsome bell-rope, isn't it?
	pooh	Yes.
	narrator	It reminds me of something," he said, "but I can't think what. Where did you get it?
	narrator	I just came across it in the Forest. It was hanging over a bush, and I thought at first somebody lived there,
	narrator	so I rang it, and nothing happened, and then I rang it again very loudly, and it came off in my hand,
	narrator	and as nobody seemed to want it, I took it home, and----
	owl	Pooh,
	pooh	You made a mistake. Somebody did want it.
	owl	Who?
	pooh	Eeyore. My dear friend Eeyore. He was--he was fond of it.
	owl	Fond of it?
	pooh	Attached to it," said Winnie-the-Pooh sadly.
	narrator	So with these words he unhooked it, and carried it back to Eeyore; and when Christopher Robin had nailed it on in its right place again,
	narrator	Eeyore frisked about the forest, waving his tail so happily that Winnie-the-Pooh came over all funny,
	narrator	and had to hurry home for a little snack of something to sustain him. And, wiping his mouth half an hour afterwards,
	narrator	he sang to himself proudly:
	pooh	Who found the Tail? I, At a quarter to two (Only it was quarter to eleven really),
	pooh	I found the Tail!
