	narrator	One day when the sun had come back over the Forest, bringing with it the scent of may,
	narrator	and all the streams of the Forest were tinkling happily to find themselves their own pretty shape again,
	narrator	and the little pools lay dreaming of the life they had seen and the big things they had done,
	narrator	and in the warmth and quiet of the Forest the cuckoo was trying over his voice carefully and listening to see if he liked it,
	narrator	and wood-pigeons were complaining gently to themselves in their lazy comfortable way that it was the other fellow's fault,
	narrator	but it didn't matter very much; on such a day as this Christopher Robin whistled in a special way he had,
	narrator	and Owl came flying out of the Hundred Acre Wood to see what was wanted.
	christopher robin	Owl
	owl	Yes, Christopher Robin?
	christopher robin	I am going to give a party.
	owl	You are, are you?
	christopher robin	And it's to be a special sort of party, because it's because of what Pooh did when he did what he did to save Piglet from the flood.
	owl	Oh, that's what it's for, is it?
	christopher robin	Yes, so will you tell Pooh as quickly as you can, and all the others, because it will be to-morrow.
	owl	Oh, it will, will it?
	christopher robin	So will you go and tell them, Owl?
	narrator	Owl tried to think of something very wise to say, but couldn't, so he flew off to tell the others.
	narrator	And the first person he told was Pooh.
	owl	Pooh, Christopher Robin is giving a party.
	pooh	Oh! Will there be those little cake things with pink sugar icing?
	narrator	Owl felt that it was rather beneath him to talk about little cake things with pink sugar icing,
	narrator	so he told Pooh exactly what Christopher Robin had said, and flew off to Eeyore. A party for Me?
	narrator	thought Pooh to himself. How grand! And he began to wonder if all the other animals would know that it was a special Pooh Party,
	narrator	and if Christopher Robin had told them about _The Floating Bear_ and the _Brain of Pooh_ and all the wonderful ships he had invented and sailed on,
	narrator	and he began to think how awful it would be if everybody had forgotten about it,
	narrator	and nobody quite knew what the party was for; and the more he thought like this,
	narrator	the more the party got muddled in his mind, like a dream when nothing goes right.
	narrator	And the dream began to sing itself over in his head until it became a sort of song.
	narrator	It was an ANXIOUS POOH SONG. 3 Cheers for Pooh! For Who? For Pooh-- Why what did he do?
	narrator	I thought you knew; He saved his friend from a wetting! 3 Cheers for Bear! For where?
	narrator	For Bear-- He couldn't swim, But he rescued him! He rescued who? Oh, listen, do! I am talking of Pooh-- Of who?
	narrator	Of Pooh! I'm sorry I keep forgetting. Well, Pooh was a Bear of Enormous Brain Just say it again!
	narrator	Of enormous brain-- Of enormous what? Well, he ate a lot, And I don't know if he could swim or not,
	narrator	But he managed to float On a sort of boat On a sort of what? Well,
	narrator	a sort of pot-- So now let's give him three hearty cheers So now let's give him three hearty whiches?
	narrator	And hope he'll be with us for years and years, And grow in health and wisdom and riches!
	narrator	3 Cheers for Pooh! For who? For Pooh-- 3 Cheers for Bear! For where? For Bear-- 3 Cheers for the wonderful Winnie-the-Pooh!
	narrator	Just tell me, somebody--WHAT DID HE DO? While this was going on inside him, Owl was talking to Eeyore.
	owl	Eeyore, Christopher Robin is giving a party.
	eeyore	Very interesting. I suppose they will be sending me down the odd bits which got trodden on.
	eeyore	Kind and Thoughtful. Not at all, don't mention it.
	owl	There is an Invitation for you.
	eeyore	What's that like?
	owl	An Invitation!
	eeyore	Yes, I heard you. Who dropped it?
	owl	This isn't anything to eat, it's asking you to the party. To-morrow.
	eeyore	You mean Piglet. The little fellow with the excited ears. That's Piglet. I'll tell him.
	owl	No, no! It's you!
	eeyore	Are you sure?
	owl	Of course I'm sure. Christopher Robin said 'All of them! Tell all of them.
	eeyore	All of them, except Eeyore?
	owl	All of them,
	eeyore	Ah! A mistake, no doubt, but still, I shall come. Only don't blame _me_ if it rains.
	narrator	But it didn't rain. Christopher Robin had made a long table out of some long pieces of wood,
	narrator	and they all sat round it. Christopher Robin sat at one end, and Pooh sat at the other,
	narrator	and between them on one side were Owl and Eeyore and Piglet, and between them on the other side were Rabbit,
	narrator	and Roo and Kanga. And all Rabbit's friends and relations spread themselves about on the grass,
	narrator	and waited hopefully in case anybody spoke to them, or dropped anything, or asked them the time.
	narrator	It was the first party to which Roo had ever been, and he was very excited.
	narrator	As soon as ever they had sat down he began to talk.
	roo	Hallo, Pooh!
	pooh	Hallo, Roo!
	roo	Hallo, Piglet!
	narrator	Piglet waved a paw at him, being too busy to say anything.
	roo	Hallo, Eeyore!
	eeyore	It will rain soon, you see if it doesn't,
	narrator	Roo looked to see if it didn't, and it didn't, so he said
	roo	Hallo, Owl!--and Owl said
	owl	Hallo, my little fellow,
	narrator	in a kindly way, and went on telling Christopher Robin about an accident which had nearly happened to a friend of his whom Christopher Robin didn't know,
	narrator	and
	kanga	Drink up your milk first, dear, and talk afterwards.
	narrator	So Roo, who was drinking his milk, tried to say that he could do both at once ...
	narrator	and had to be patted on the back and dried for quite a long time afterwards.
	narrator	When they had all nearly eaten enough, Christopher Robin banged on the table with his spoon,
	narrator	and everybody stopped talking and was very silent, except Roo who was just finishing a loud attack of hiccups and trying to look as if it was one of Rabbit's relations.
	christopher robin	This party, is a party because of what someone did, and we all know who it was,
	christopher robin	and it's his party, because of what he did, and I've got a present for him and here it is.
	christopher robin	Then he felt about a little and whispered, "Where is it?
	eeyore	Friends, including oddments, it is a great pleasure, or perhaps I had better say it has been a pleasure so far,
	eeyore	to see you at my party. What I did was nothing. Any of you--except Rabbit and Owl and Kanga--would have done the same.
	eeyore	Oh, and Pooh. My remarks do not, of course, apply to Piglet and Roo, because they are too small.
	eeyore	Any of you would have done the same. But it just happened to be Me. It was not,
	eeyore	I need hardly say, with an idea of getting what Christopher Robin is looking for now --and he put his front leg to his mouth and said in a loud whisper,
	eeyore	"Try under the table --that I did what I did--but because I feel that we should all do what we can to help.
	eeyore	I feel that we should all----
	roo	H--hup!
	kanga	Roo, dear!
	roo	Was it me?
	piglet	What's Eeyore talking about?
	pooh	I don't know. I thought this was _your_ party.
	christopher robin	I thought it was _once_. But I suppose it isn't.
	piglet	I'd sooner it was yours than Eeyore's.
	pooh	So would I.
	roo	H--hup!
	eeyore	AS--I--WAS--SAYING, as I was saying when I was interrupted by various Loud Sounds, I feel that----
	christopher robin	Here it is! Pass it down to silly old Pooh. It's for Pooh.
	eeyore	For Pooh?
	christopher robin	Of course it is. The best bear in all the world.
	eeyore	I might have known. After all, one can't complain. I have my friends. Somebody spoke to me only yesterday.
	eeyore	And was it last week or the week before that Rabbit bumped into me and said 'Bother!'
	eeyore	The Social Round. Always something going on.
	narrator	Nobody was listening, for they were all saying "Open it, Pooh," "What is it, Pooh?" "I know what it is,"
	narrator	"No, you don't" and other helpful remarks of this sort. And of course Pooh was opening it as quickly as ever he could,
	narrator	but without cutting the string, because you never know when a bit of string might be Useful.
	narrator	At last it was undone. When Pooh saw what it was, he nearly fell down, he was so pleased.
	narrator	It was a Special Pencil Case. There were pencils in it marked "B" for Bear, and pencils marked "HB"
	narrator	for Helping Bear, and pencils marked "BB" for Brave Bear. There was a knife for sharpening the pencils,
	narrator	and india-rubber for rubbing out anything which you had spelt wrong, and a ruler for ruling lines for the words to walk on,
	narrator	and inches marked on the ruler in case you wanted to know how many inches anything was,
	narrator	and Blue Pencils and Red Pencils and Green Pencils for saying special things in blue and red and green.
	narrator	And all these lovely things were in little pockets of their own in a Special Case which shut with a click when you clicked it.
	narrator	And they were all for Pooh.
	pooh	Oh!
	narrator	Oh, Pooh!
	pooh	Thank-you.
	narrator	But Eeyore was saying to himself, "This writing business. Pencils and what-not. Over-rated, if you ask me.
	narrator	Silly stuff. Nothing in it." Later on, when they had all said "Good-bye" and "Thank-you" to Christopher Robin,
	narrator	Pooh and Piglet walked home thoughtfully together in the golden evening, and for a long time they were silent.
	piglet	When you wake up in the morning, Pooh, what's the first thing you say to yourself?
	pooh	What's for breakfast? What do _you_ say, Piglet?
	piglet	I say, I wonder what's going to happen exciting _to-day_?
	pooh	I think it's the same thing.
	christopher robin	And what did happen? When? Next morning.
	narrator	I don't know.
	christopher robin	Could you think and tell me and Pooh some time? If you wanted it very much.
	christopher robin	Pooh does,
	narrator	said Christopher Robin.
	christopher robin	He gave a deep sigh, picked his bear up by the leg and walked off to the door,
	christopher robin	trailing Winnie-the-Pooh behind him. At the door he turned and said "Coming to see me have my bath?
	narrator	I might,
	christopher robin	I said. Was Pooh's pencil case any better than mine?
	narrator	It was just the same,
	christopher robin	I said.
	narrator	He nodded and went out ... and in a moment I heard Winnie-the-Pooh--_bump, bump, bump_--going up the stairs behind him.
