	narrator	Much rain fell in the night; and the next morning there blew a bitter wintry wind out of the north-west,
	narrator	driving scattered clouds. For all that, and before the sun began to peep or the last of the stars had vanished,
	narrator	I made my way to the side of the burn, and had a plunge in a deep whirling pool.
	narrator	All aglow from my bath, I sat down once more beside the fire, which I replenished,
	narrator	and began gravely to consider my position. There was now no doubt about my uncle's enmity; there was no doubt I carried my life in my hand,
	narrator	and he would leave no stone unturned that he might compass my destruction. But I was young and spirited,
	narrator	and like most lads that have been country-bred, I had a great opinion of my shrewdness.
	narrator	I had come to his door no better than a beggar and little more than a child; he had met me with treachery and violence; it would be a fine consummation to take the upper hand,
	narrator	and drive him like a herd of sheep. I sat there nursing my knee and smiling at the fire; and I saw myself in fancy smell out his secrets one after another,
	narrator	and grow to be that man's king and ruler. The warlock of Essendean, they say, had made a mirror in which men could read the future; it must have been of other stuff than burning coal; for in all the shapes and pictures that I sat and gazed at,
	narrator	there was never a ship, never a seaman with a hairy cap, never a big bludgeon for my silly head,
	narrator	or the least sign of all those tribulations that were ripe to fall on me. Presently,
	narrator	all swollen with conceit, I went up-stairs and gave my prisoner his liberty. He gave me good-morning civilly; and I gave the same to him,
	narrator	smiling down upon him, from the heights of my sufficiency. Soon we were set to breakfast,
	narrator	as it might have been the day before. Well, sir,
	uncle ebenezer	have you nothing more to say to me?
	narrator	And then, as he made no articulate reply,
	uncle ebenezer	It will be time, I think, to understand each other, You took me for a country Johnnie Raw,
	uncle ebenezer	with no more mother-wit or courage than a porridge-stick. I took you for a good man,
	uncle ebenezer	or no worse than others at the least. It seems we were both wrong. What cause you have to fear me,
	uncle ebenezer	to cheat me, and to attempt my life--
	the prisoner	He murmured something about a jest, and that he liked a bit of fun; and then,
	the prisoner	seeing me smile, changed his tone, and assured me he would make all clear as soon as we had breakfasted.
	narrator	I saw by his face that he had no lie ready for me, though he was hard at work preparing one; and I think I was about to tell him so,
	narrator	when we were interrupted by a knocking at the door. Bidding my uncle sit where he was,
	narrator	I went to open it, and found on the doorstep a half-grown boy in sea-clothes.
	ransome	What cheer, mate?
	narrator	I asked him soberly to name his pleasure.
	ransome	O, pleasure! and then began to sing: For it's my delight, of a shiny night, In the season of the year.
	narrator	Well,
	uncle ebenezer	if you have no business at all, I will even be so unmannerly as to shut you out.
	ransome	Stay, brother! Have you no fun about you? or do you want to get me thrashed?
	ransome	I've brought a letter from old Heasyoasy to Mr. Belflower. He showed me a letter as he spoke.
	ransome	And I say, mate, I'm mortal hungry.
	narrator	Well,
	uncle ebenezer	come into the house, and you shall have a bite if I go empty for it.
	narrator	With that I brought him in and set him down to my own place, where he fell-to greedily on the remains of breakfast,
	narrator	winking to me between whiles, and making many faces, which I think the poor soul considered manly.
	narrator	Meanwhile, my uncle had read the letter and sat thinking; then, suddenly, he got to his feet with a great air of liveliness,
	narrator	and pulled me apart into the farthest corner of the room.
	uncle ebenezer	Read that, and put the letter in my hand.
	narrator	Here it is, lying before me as I write: The Hawes Inn, at the Queen's Ferry.
	narrator	Sir,--I lie here with my hawser up and down, and send my cabin-boy to informe. If you have any further commands for over-seas,
	narrator	to-day will be the last occasion, as the wind will serve us well out of the firth.
	narrator	I will not seek to deny that I have had crosses with your doer, Mr. Rankeillor; of which,
	narrator	if not speedily redd up, you may looke to see some losses follow. I have drawn a bill upon you,
	narrator	as per margin, and am, sir, your most obedt., humble servant, ELIAS HOSEASON. [4] Agent.
	uncle ebenezer	You see, Davie, I have a venture with this man Hoseason, the captain of a trading brig,
	uncle ebenezer	the _Covenant_, of Dysart. Now, if you and me was to walk over with yon lad,
	uncle ebenezer	I could see the captain at the Hawes, or maybe on board the _Covenant_ if there was papers to be signed; and so far from a loss of time,
	uncle ebenezer	we can jog on to the lawyer, Mr. Rankeillor's. After a' that's come and gone, ye would be swier to believe me upon my naked word; but ye'll believe Rankeillor.
	uncle ebenezer	He's factor to half the gentry in these parts; an auld man, forby: highly respeckit, and he kenned your father.
	narrator	[5] Unwilling. I stood awhile and thought. I was going to some place of shipping, which was doubtless populous,
	narrator	and where my uncle durst attempt no violence, and, indeed, even the society of the cabin-boy so far protected me.
	narrator	Once there, I believed I could force on the visit to the lawyer, even if my uncle were now insincere in proposing it; and,
	narrator	perhaps, in the bottom of my heart, I wished a nearer view of the sea and ships.
	narrator	You are to remember I had lived all my life in the inland hills, and just two days before had my first sight of the firth lying like a blue floor,
	narrator	and the sailed ships moving on the face of it, no bigger than toys. One thing with another,
	narrator	I made up my mind. Very well, says I, "let us go to the Ferry." My uncle got into his hat and coat,
	narrator	and buckled an old rusty cutlass on; and then we trod the fire out, locked the door,
	narrator	and set forth upon our walk. The wind, being in that cold quarter the north-west, blew nearly in our faces as we went.
	narrator	It was the month of June; the grass was all white with daisies, and the trees with blossom; but,
	narrator	to judge by our blue nails and aching wrists, the time might have been winter and the whiteness a December frost.
	narrator	Uncle Ebenezer trudged in the ditch, jogging from side to side like an old ploughman coming home from work.
	narrator	He never said a word the whole way; and I was thrown for talk on the cabin-boy.
	narrator	He told me his name was Ransome, and that he had followed the sea since he was nine,
	narrator	but could not say how old he was, as he had lost his reckoning. He showed me tattoo marks,
	narrator	baring his breast in the teeth of the wind and in spite of my remonstrances, for I thought it was enough to kill him; he swore horribly whenever he remembered,
	narrator	but more like a silly schoolboy than a man; and boasted of many wild and bad things that he had done: stealthy thefts,
	narrator	false accusations, ay, and even murder; but all with such a dearth of likelihood in the details,
	narrator	and such a weak and crazy swagger in the delivery, as disposed me rather to pity than to believe him.
	narrator	I asked him of the brig (which he declared was the finest ship that sailed) and of Captain Hoseason,
	narrator	in whose praises he was equally loud. Heasyoasy (for so he still named the skipper) was a man,
	narrator	by his account, that minded for nothing either in heaven or earth; one that, as people said,
	narrator	would "crack on all sail into the day of judgment;" rough, fierce, unscrupulous, and brutal; and all this my poor cabin-boy had taught himself to admire as something seamanlike and manly.
	narrator	He would only admit one flaw in his idol. "He ain't no seaman," he admitted. "That's Mr. Shuan that navigates the brig; he's the finest seaman in the trade,
	narrator	only for drink; and I tell you I believe it! Why, look'ere;" and turning down his stocking he showed me a great,
	narrator	raw, red wound that made my blood run cold. "He done that--Mr. Shuan done it," he said,
	narrator	with an air of pride. What! I cried, "do you take such savage usage at his hands?
	narrator	Why, you are no slave, to be so handled!" No,
	ransome	said the poor moon-calf, changing his tune at once, "and so he'll find. See'ere;" and he showed me a great case-knife,
	ransome	which he told me was stolen. "O," says he, "let me see him try; I dare him to; I'll do for him!
	ransome	O, he ain't the first!" And he confirmed it with a poor, silly, ugly oath.
	narrator	I have never felt such pity for any one in this wide world as I felt for that half-witted creature,
	narrator	and it began to come over me that the brig _Covenant_ (for all her pious name) was little better than a hell upon the seas.
	narrator	Have you no friends?
	ransome	He said he had a father in some English seaport, I forget which. He was a fine man,
	ransome	too," he said, "but he's dead.
	narrator	In Heaven's name, cried I, "can you find no reputable life on shore?"
	ransome	O, no," says he, winking and looking very sly, "they would put me to a trade.
	ransome	I know a trick worth two of that, I do!
	narrator	I asked him what trade could be so dreadful as the one he followed, where he ran the continual peril of his life,
	narrator	not alone from wind and sea, but by the horrid cruelty of those who were his masters.
	narrator	He said it was very true; and then began to praise the life, and tell what a pleasure it was to get on shore with money in his pocket,
	narrator	and spend it like a man, and buy apples, and swagger, and surprise what he called stick-in-the-mud boys.
	narrator	"And then it's not all as bad as that," says he; "there's worse off than me: there's the twenty-pounders.
	narrator	O, laws! you should see them taking on. Why, I've seen a man as old as you,
	narrator	I dessay"--(to him I seemed old)--"ah, and he had a beard, too--well, and as soon as we cleared out of the river,
	narrator	and he had the drug out of his head--my! how he cried and carried on! I made a fine fool of him,
	narrator	I tell you! And then there's little uns, too: oh, little by me! I tell you,
	narrator	I keep them in order. When we carry little uns, I have a rope's end of my own to wollop'em."
	narrator	And so he ran on, until it came in on me what he meant by twenty-pounders were those unhappy criminals who were sent over-seas to slavery in North America,
	narrator	or the still more unhappy innocents who were kidnapped or trepanned (as the word went) for private interest or vengeance.
	narrator	Just then we came to the top of the hill, and looked down on the Ferry and the Hope.
	narrator	The Firth of Forth (as is very well known) narrows at this point to the width of a good-sized river,
	narrator	which makes a convenient ferry going north, and turns the upper reach into a landlocked haven for all manner of ships.
	narrator	Right in the midst of the narrows lies an islet with some ruins; on the south shore they have built a pier for the service of the Ferry; and at the end of the pier,
	narrator	on the other side of the road, and backed against a pretty garden of holly-trees and hawthorns,
	narrator	I could see the building which they called the Hawes Inn. The town of Queensferry lies farther west,
	narrator	and the neighbourhood of the inn looked pretty lonely at that time of day, for the boat had just gone north with passengers.
	narrator	A skiff, however, lay beside the pier, with some seamen sleeping on the thwarts; this, as Ransome told me,
	narrator	was the brig's boat waiting for the captain; and about half a mile off, and all alone in the anchorage,
	narrator	he showed me the _Covenant_ herself. There was a sea-going bustle on board; yards were swinging into place; and as the wind blew from that quarter,
	narrator	I could hear the song of the sailors as they pulled upon the ropes. After all I had listened to upon the way,
	narrator	I looked at that ship with an extreme abhorrence; and from the bottom of my heart I pitied all poor souls that were condemned to sail in her.
	narrator	We had all three pulled up on the brow of the hill; and now I marched across the road and addressed my uncle.
	uncle ebenezer	I think it right to tell you, sir, there's nothing that will bring me on board that _Covenant_.
	uncle ebenezer	Eh? What's that?
	narrator	I told him over again.
	uncle ebenezer	Well, well, we'll have to please ye, I suppose. But what are we standing here for?
	uncle ebenezer	It's perishing cold; and if I'm no mistaken, they're busking the _Covenant_ for sea.
