	narrator	I COME TO MR. RANKEILLOR The next day it was agreed that Alan should fend for himself till sunset; but as soon as it began to grow dark,
	narrator	he should lie in the fields by the roadside near to Newhalls, and stir for naught until he heard me whistling.
	narrator	At first I proposed I should give him for a signal the "Bonnie House of Airlie,"
	narrator	which was a favourite of mine; but he objected that as the piece was very commonly known,
	narrator	any ploughman might whistle it by accident; and taught me instead a little fragment of a Highland air,
	narrator	which has run in my head from that day to this, and will likely run in my head when I lie dying.
	narrator	Every time it comes to me, it takes me off to that last day of my uncertainty,
	narrator	with Alan sitting up in the bottom of the den, whistling and beating the measure with a finger,
	narrator	and the grey of the dawn coming on his face. I was in the long street of Queensferry before the sun was up.
	narrator	It was a fairly built burgh, the houses of good stone, many slated; the town-hall not so fine,
	narrator	I thought, as that of Peebles, nor yet the street so noble; but take it altogether,
	narrator	it put me to shame for my foul tatters. As the morning went on, and the fires began to be kindled,
	narrator	and the windows to open, and the people to appear out of the houses, my concern and despondency grew ever the blacker.
	narrator	I saw now that I had no grounds to stand upon; and no clear proof of my rights,
	narrator	nor so much as of my own identity. If it was all a bubble, I was indeed sorely cheated and left in a sore pass.
	narrator	Even if things were as I conceived, it would in all likelihood take time to establish my contentions; and what time had I to spare with less than three shillings in my pocket,
	narrator	and a condemned, hunted man upon my hands to ship out of the country? Truly, if my hope broke with me,
	narrator	it might come to the gallows yet for both of us. And as I continued to walk up and down,
	narrator	and saw people looking askance at me upon the street or out of windows, and nudging or speaking one to another with smiles,
	narrator	I began to take a fresh apprehension: that it might be no easy matter even to come to speech of the lawyer,
	narrator	far less to convince him of my story. For the life of me I could not muster up the courage to address any of these reputable burghers; I thought shame even to speak with them in such a pickle of rags and dirt; and if I had asked for the
	narrator	house of such a man as Mr. Rankeillor, I suppose they would have burst out laughing in my face.
	narrator	So I went up and down, and through the street, and down to the harbour-side, like a dog that has lost its master,
	narrator	with a strange gnawing in my inwards, and every now and then a movement of despair.
	narrator	It grew to be high day at last, perhaps nine in the forenoon; and I was worn with these wanderings,
	narrator	and chanced to have stopped in front of a very good house on the landward side,
	narrator	a house with beautiful, clear glass windows, flowering knots upon the sills, the walls new-harled and a chase-dog sitting yawning on the step like one that was at home.
	narrator	Well, I was even envying this dumb brute, when the door fell open and there issued forth a shrewd,
	narrator	ruddy, kindly, consequential man in a well-powdered wig and spectacles. I was in such a plight that no one set eyes on me once,
	narrator	but he looked at me again; and this gentleman, as it proved, was so much struck with my poor appearance that he came straight up to me and asked me what I did.
	narrator	I told him I was come to the Queensferry on business, and taking heart of grace,
	narrator	asked him to direct me to the house of Mr. Rankeillor.
	mr. rankeillor	Why, that is his house that I have just come out of; and for a rather singular chance,
	mr. rankeillor	I am that very man.
	david balfour	Then, sir, I have to beg the favour of an interview.
	mr. rankeillor	I do not know your name, nor yet your face.
	david balfour	My name is David Balfour,
	mr. rankeillor	David Balfour? And where have you come from, Mr. David Balfour? he asked, looking me pretty drily in the face.
	david balfour	I have come from a great many strange places, sir, but I think it would be as well to tell you where and how in a more private manner.
	mr. rankeillor	Yes, that will be the best, no doubt. And he led me back with him into his house,
	mr. rankeillor	cried out to some one whom I could not see that he would be engaged all morning,
	mr. rankeillor	and brought me into a little dusty chamber full of books and documents. Here he sate down,
	mr. rankeillor	and bade me be seated; though I thought he looked a little ruefully from his clean chair to my muddy rags.
	mr. rankeillor	"And now," says he, "if you have any business, pray be brief and come swiftly to the point.
	mr. rankeillor	_Nec gemino bellum Trojanum orditur ab ovo_--do you understand that?" says he, with a keen look.
	david balfour	I will even do as Horace says, sir, and carry you _in medias res_.
	mr. rankeillor	He nodded as if he was well pleased, and indeed his scrap of Latin had been set to test me.
	mr. rankeillor	For all that, and though I was somewhat encouraged, the blood came in my face when I added: "I have reason to believe myself some rights on the estate of Shaws.
	mr. rankeillor	He got a paper book out of a drawer and set it before him open. "Well?"
	mr. rankeillor	said he.
	narrator	But I had shot my bolt and sat speechless.
	mr. rankeillor	Come, come, Mr. Balfour, you must continue. Where were you born?
	david balfour	In Essendean, sir, the year 1733, the 12th of March.
	mr. rankeillor	He seemed to follow this statement in his paper book; but what that meant I knew not.
	mr. rankeillor	"Your father and mother?" said he.
	david balfour	My father was Alexander Balfour, schoolmaster of that place, and my mother Grace Pitarrow; I think her people were from Angus.
	mr. rankeillor	Have you any papers proving your identity?
	david balfour	No, sir, but they are in the hands of Mr. Campbell, the minister, and could be readily produced.
	david balfour	Mr. Campbell, too, would give me his word; and for that matter, I do not think my uncle would deny me.
	narrator	- David Balfour (*male): The protagonist, a young man from Essendean born in 1733 who has been kidnapped,
	narrator	shipwrecked, and is now seeking to establish his identity and rights to the estate of Shaws.
	narrator	He is described as having poor appearance with muddy rags, and has been wandering and suffering in the streets of Queensferry.
	narrator	- Mr. Rankeillor (*male): A lawyer in Queensferry who initially appears skeptical but becomes convinced of David's story.
	narrator	He is described as a shrewd, ruddy, kindly man with a well-powdered wig and spectacles. He has been the uncle's man of business and is knowledgeable about legal matters.
	narrator	- Alan Breck (*male): David's companion who is referred to as Mr. Thomson in the story due to legal concerns about mentioning his real name,
	narrator	which is known for being connected to the Appin murder and reward offer. He is described as a gentleman with choice qualities but possibly bloody-minded.
	narrator	- Alexander Balfour (*male): David's father, described as a schoolmaster of Essendean. - Grace Pitarrow (*female): David's mother,
	narrator	from Angus. - Ebenezer Balfour (*male): David's uncle who received him into his house and is mentioned as having given David considerable sums of money.
	narrator	- Mr. Campbell (*male): A minister who would vouch for David's identity and is mentioned as having been concerned about David's whereabouts.
	narrator	- Captain Hoseason (*male): A man who provided the story of David's drowning, which was used to explain his absence and caused trouble for David's friends.
	narrator	- James Stewart (*male): Referred to as Mr. Thomson's kinsman in the story. - Colin Campbell (*male): Referred to as Mr. Glen in the story.
	narrator	- Cluny (*male): Referred to as Mr. Jameson, a Highland chief in the story. PASSAGE:
	mr. rankeillor	Meaning Mr. Ebenezer Balfour?
	david balfour	The same.
	mr. rankeillor	Whom you have seen?
	david balfour	By whom I was received into his own house.
	mr. rankeillor	Did you ever meet a man of the name of Hoseason?
	david balfour	I did so, sir, for my sins; for it was by his means and the procurement of my uncle,
	david balfour	that I was kidnapped within sight of this town, carried to sea, suffered shipwreck and a hundred other hardships,
	david balfour	and stand before you to-day in this poor accoutrement.
	mr. rankeillor	You say you were shipwrecked.
	david balfour	Where was that? Off the south end of the Isle of Mull. The name of the isle on which I was cast up is the Island Earraid.
	mr. rankeillor	Ah!
	narrator	says he, smiling,
	mr. rankeillor	you are deeper than me in the geography. But so far, I may tell you, this agrees pretty exactly with other informations that I hold.
	mr. rankeillor	But you say you were kidnapped; in what sense?
	david balfour	In the plain meaning of the word, sir. I was on my way to your house,
	david balfour	when I was trepanned on board the brig, cruelly struck down, thrown below, and knew no more of anything till we were far at sea.
	david balfour	I was destined for the plantations; a fate that, in God's providence, I have escaped.
	mr. rankeillor	The brig was lost on June the 27th,
	narrator	says he, looking in his book,
	mr. rankeillor	and we are now at August the 24th. Here is a considerable hiatus, Mr. Balfour, of near upon two months.
	mr. rankeillor	It has already caused a vast amount of trouble to your friends; and I own I shall not be very well contented until it is set right.
	david balfour	Indeed, sir,
	narrator	said I,
	david balfour	these months are very easily filled up; but yet before I told my story, I would be glad to know that I was talking to a friend.
	mr. rankeillor	This is to argue in a circle,
	narrator	said the lawyer.
	mr. rankeillor	I cannot be convinced till I have heard you. I cannot be your friend till I am properly informed.
	mr. rankeillor	If you were more trustful, it would better befit your time of life. And you know,
	mr. rankeillor	Mr. Balfour, we have a proverb in the country that evil-doers are aye evil-dreaders.
	david balfour	You are not to forget, sir,
	narrator	said I,
	david balfour	that I have already suffered by my trustfulness; and was shipped off to be a slave by the very man that (if I rightly understand) is your employer?
	narrator	All this while I had been gaining ground with Mr. Rankeillor, and in proportion as I gained ground,
	narrator	gaining confidence. But at this sally, which I made with something of a smile myself,
	mr. rankeillor	he fairly laughed aloud. No, no,
	narrator	said he,
	mr. rankeillor	it is not so bad as that. _Fui, non sum_. I was indeed your uncle's man of business; but while you (_imberbis juvenis custode remoto_) were gallivanting in the west,
	mr. rankeillor	a good deal of water has run under the bridges; and if your ears did not sing,
	mr. rankeillor	it was not for lack of being talked about. On the very day of your sea disaster,
	mr. rankeillor	Mr. Campbell stalked into my office, demanding you from all the winds. I had never heard of your existence; but I had known your father; and from matters in my competence (to be touched upon hereafter) I was disposed to fear the worst.
	mr. rankeillor	Mr. Ebenezer admitted having seen you; declared (what seemed improbable) that he had given you considerable sums; and that you had started for the continent of Europe,
	mr. rankeillor	intending to fulfil your education, which was probable and praiseworthy. Interrogated how you had come to send no word to Mr. Campbell,
	mr. rankeillor	he deponed that you had expressed a great desire to break with your past life. Further interrogated where you now were,
	mr. rankeillor	protested ignorance, but believed you were in Leyden. That is a close sum of his replies.
	mr. rankeillor	I am not exactly sure that any one believed him,
	narrator	continued Mr. Rankeillor with a smile,
	mr. rankeillor	and in particular he so much disrelished me expressions of mine that (in a word) he showed me to the door.
	mr. rankeillor	We were then at a full stand; for whatever shrewd suspicions we might entertain, we had no shadow of probation.
	mr. rankeillor	In the very article, comes Captain Hoseason with the story of your drowning; whereupon all fell through; with no consequences but concern to Mr. Campbell,
	mr. rankeillor	injury to my pocket, and another blot upon your uncle's character, which could very ill afford it.
	mr. rankeillor	And now, Mr. Balfour,
	narrator	said he,
	mr. rankeillor	you understand the whole process of these matters, and can judge for yourself to what extent I may be trusted.
	narrator	Indeed he was more pedantic than I can represent him, and placed more scraps of Latin in his speech; but it was all uttered with a fine geniality of eye and manner which went far to conquer my distrust.
	narrator	Moreover, I could see he now treated me as if I was myself beyond a doubt; so that first point of my identity seemed fully granted.
	david balfour	Sir,
	narrator	said I,
	david balfour	if I tell you my story, I must commit a friend's life to your discretion. Pass me your word it shall be sacred; and for what touches myself,
	david balfour	I will ask no better guarantee than just your face.
	mr. rankeillor	He passed me his word very seriously. But,
	narrator	said he,
	mr. rankeillor	these are rather alarming prolocutions; and if there are in your story any little jostles to the law,
	mr. rankeillor	I would beg you to bear in mind that I am a lawyer, and pass lightly.
	narrator	Thereupon I told him my story from the first, he listening with his spectacles thrust up and his eyes closed,
	narrator	so that I sometimes feared he was asleep. But no such matter! he heard every word (as I found afterward) with such quickness of hearing and precision of memory as often surprised me.
	narrator	Even strange outlandish Gaelic names, heard for that time only, he remembered and would remind me of,
	narrator	years after. Yet when I called Alan Breck in full, we had an odd scene.
	mr. rankeillor	The name of Alan had of course rung through Scotland, with the news of the Appin murder and the offer of the reward; and it had no sooner escaped me than the lawyer moved in his seat and opened his eyes.
	mr. rankeillor	I would name no unnecessary names, Mr. Balfour,
	narrator	said he,
	mr. rankeillor	above all of Highlanders, many of whom are obnoxious to the law.
	david balfour	Well, it might have been better not,
	narrator	said I,
	david balfour	but since I have let it slip, I may as well continue.
	mr. rankeillor	Not at all. I am somewhat dull of hearing, as you may have remarked; and I am far from sure I caught the name exactly.
	mr. rankeillor	We will call your friend, if you please, Mr. Thomson--that there may be no reflections. And in future,
	mr. rankeillor	I would take some such way with any Highlander that you may have to mention--dead or alive.
	narrator	By this, I saw he must have heard the name all too clearly, and had already guessed I might be coming to the murder.
	narrator	If he chose to play this part of ignorance, it was no matter of mine; so I smiled,
	narrator	said it was no very Highland-sounding name, and consented. Through all the rest of my story Alan was Mr. Thomson; which amused me the more,
	narrator	as it was a piece of policy after his own heart. James Stewart, in like manner,
	narrator	was mentioned under the style of Mr. Thomson's kinsman; Colin Campbell passed as a Mr. Glen; and to Cluny,
	narrator	when I came to that part of my tale, I gave the name of "Mr. Jameson,
	narrator	a Highland chief." It was truly the most open farce, and I wondered that the lawyer should care to keep it up; but,
	narrator	after all, it was quite in the taste of that age, when there were two parties in the state,
	narrator	and quiet persons, with no very high opinions of their own, sought out every cranny to avoid offence to either.
	mr. rankeillor	Well, well, this is a great epic, a great Odyssey of yours. You must tell it,
	mr. rankeillor	sir, in a sound Latinity when your scholarship is riper; or in English if you please,
	mr. rankeillor	though for my part I prefer the stronger tongue. You have rolled much; _quæ regio in terris_--what parish in Scotland (to make a homely translation) has not been filled with your wanderings?
	mr. rankeillor	You have shown, besides, a singular aptitude for getting into false positions; and, yes, upon the whole,
	mr. rankeillor	for behaving well in them. This Mr. Thomson seems to me a gentleman of some choice qualities,
	mr. rankeillor	though perhaps a trifle bloody-minded. It would please me none the worse, if (with all his merits) he were soused in the North Sea,
	mr. rankeillor	for the man, Mr. David, is a sore embarrassment. But you are doubtless quite right to adhere to him; indubitably,
	mr. rankeillor	he adhered to you. _It comes_--we may say--he was your true companion; nor less _paribus curis vestigia figit_,
	mr. rankeillor	for I dare say you would both take an orra thought upon the gallows. Well, well,
	mr. rankeillor	these days are fortunately by; and I think (speaking humanly) that you are near the end of your troubles.
	narrator	As he thus moralised on my adventures, he looked upon me with so much humour and benignity that I could scarce contain my satisfaction.
	narrator	I had been so long wandering with lawless people, and making my bed upon the hills and under the bare sky,
	narrator	that to sit once more in a clean, covered house, and to talk amicably with a gentleman in broadcloth,
	narrator	seemed mighty elevations. Even as I thought so, my eye fell on my unseemly tatters, and I was once more plunged in confusion.
	narrator	But the lawyer saw and understood me.
	mr. rankeillor	He rose, called over the stair to lay another plate, for Mr. Balfour would stay to dinner,
	mr. rankeillor	and led me into a bedroom in the upper part of the house. Here he set before me water and soap,
	mr. rankeillor	and a comb; and laid out some clothes that belonged to his son; and here, with another apposite tag,
	mr. rankeillor	he left me to my toilet.
