	narrator	Some seven hours’ incessant, hard travelling brought us early in the morning to the end of a range of mountains.
	narrator	In front of us there lay a piece of low, broken, desert land, which we must now cross.
	narrator	The sun was not long up, and shone straight in our eyes; a little, thin mist went up from the face of the moorland like a smoke; so that (as Alan said) there might have been twenty squadron of dragoons there and we none the wiser.
	narrator	We sat down, therefore, in a howe of the hill-side till the mist should have risen,
	narrator	and made ourselves a dish of drammach, and held a council of war.
	alan	David, this is the kittle bit. Shall we lie here till it comes night, or shall we risk it,
	alan	and stave on ahead?
	david balfour	Well, I am tired indeed, but I could walk as far again, if that was all.
	alan	Ay, but it isnae, nor yet the half. This is how we stand: Appin’s fair death to us.
	alan	To the south it’s all Campbells, and no to be thought of. To the north; well,
	alan	there’s no muckle to be gained by going north; neither for you, that wants to get to Queensferry,
	alan	nor yet for me, that wants to get to France. Well, then, we’ll can strike east.
	david balfour	East be it!
	narrator	says I, quite cheerily; but I was thinking in to myself: "O, man, if you would only take one point of the compass and let me take any other,
	narrator	it would be the best for both of us."
	alan	Well, then, east, ye see, we have the muirs. Once there, David, it’s mere pitch-and-toss. Out on yon bald,
	alan	naked, flat place, where can a body turn to? Let the red-coats come over a hill,
	alan	they can spy you miles away; and the sorrow’s in their horses’ heels, they would soon ride you down.
	alan	It’s no good place, David; and I’m free to say, it’s worse by daylight than by dark.
	david balfour	Alan, hear my way of it. Appin’s death for us; we have none too much money,
	david balfour	nor yet meal; the longer they seek, the nearer they may guess where we are; it’s all a risk; and I give my word to go ahead until we drop.
	alan	Alan was delighted. "There are whiles," said he, "when ye are altogether too canny and Whiggish to be company for a gentleman like me; but there come other whiles when ye show yoursel’
	alan	a mettle spark; and it’s then, David, that I love ye like a brother.
	narrator	The mist rose and died away, and showed us that country lying as waste as the sea; only the moorfowl and the pewees crying upon it,
	narrator	and far over to the east, a herd of deer, moving like dots. Much of it was red with heather; much of the rest broken up with bogs and hags and peaty pools; some had been burnt black in a heath fire; and in another place there was quite a
	narrator	forest of dead firs, standing like skeletons. A wearyer-looking desert man never saw; but at least it was clear of troops,
	narrator	which was our point. We went down accordingly into the waste, and began to make our toilsome and devious travel towards the eastern verge.
	narrator	There were the tops of mountains all round (you are to remember) from whence we might be spied at any moment; so it behoved us to keep in the hollow parts of the moor,
	narrator	and when these turned aside from our direction to move upon its naked face with infinite care.
	narrator	Sometimes, for half an hour together, we must crawl from one heather bush to another, as hunters do when they are hard upon the deer.
	narrator	It was a clear day again, with a blazing sun; the water in the brandy bottle was soon gone; and altogether,
	narrator	if I had guessed what it would be to crawl half the time upon my belly and to walk much of the rest stooping nearly to the knees,
	narrator	I should certainly have held back from such a killing enterprise. Toiling and resting and toiling again,
	narrator	we wore away the morning; and about noon lay down in a thick bush of heather to sleep.
	narrator	Alan took the first watch; and it seemed to me I had scarce closed my eyes before I was shaken up to take the second.
	narrator	We had no clock to go by; and Alan stuck a sprig of heath in the ground to serve instead; so that as soon as the shadow of the bush should fall so far to the east,
	narrator	I might know to rouse him. But I was by this time so weary that I could have slept twelve hours at a stretch; I had the taste of sleep in my throat; my joints slept even when my mind was waking; the hot smell of the heather,
	narrator	and the drone of the wild bees, were like possets to me; and every now and again I would give a jump and find I had been dozing.
	narrator	The last time I woke I seemed to come back from farther away, and thought the sun had taken a great start in the heavens.
	narrator	I looked at the sprig of heath, and at that I could have cried aloud: for I saw I had betrayed my trust.
	narrator	My head was nearly turned with fear and shame; and at what I saw, when I looked out around me on the moor,
	narrator	my heart was like dying in my body. For sure enough, a body of horse-soldiers had come down during my sleep,
	narrator	and were drawing near to us from the south-east, spread out in the shape of a fan and riding their horses to and fro in the deep parts of the heather.
	narrator	When I waked Alan, he glanced first at the soldiers, then at the mark and the position of the sun,
	narrator	and knitted his brows with a sudden, quick look, both ugly and anxious, which was all the reproach I had of him.
	david balfour	What are we to do now?
	alan	We’ll have to play at being hares.
	david balfour	Ay, said I.
	alan	Well, then, let us strike for that. Its name is Ben Alder. It is a wild,
	alan	desert mountain full of hills and hollows, and if we can win to it before the morn,
	alan	we may do yet.
	david balfour	But, Alan, cried I, that will take us across the very coming of the soldiers!
	alan	I ken that fine, said he; but if we are driven back on Appin, we are two dead men.
	alan	So now, David man, be brisk!
	narrator	With that he began to run forward on his hands and knees with an incredible quickness,
	narrator	as though it were his natural way of going. All the time, too, he kept winding in and out in the lower parts of the moorland where we were the best concealed.
	narrator	Some of these had been burned or at least scathed with fire; and there rose in our faces (which were close to the ground) a blinding,
	narrator	choking dust as fine as smoke. The water was long out; and this posture of running on the hands and knees brings an overmastering weakness and weariness,
	narrator	so that the joints ache and the wrists faint under your weight. Now and then, indeed,
	narrator	where was a big bush of heather, we lay awhile, and panted, and putting aside the leaves,
	narrator	looked back at the dragoons. They had not spied us, for they held straight on; a half-troop,
	narrator	I think, covering about two miles of ground, and beating it mighty thoroughly as they went.
	narrator	I had awakened just in time; a little later, and we must have fled in front of them,
	narrator	instead of escaping on one side. Even as it was, the least misfortune might betray us; and now and again,
	narrator	when a grouse rose out of the heather with a clap of wings, we lay as still as the dead and were afraid to breathe.
	narrator	The aching and faintness of my body, the labouring of my heart, the soreness of my hands,
	narrator	and the smarting of my throat and eyes in the continual smoke of dust and ashes,
	narrator	had soon grown to be so unbearable that I would gladly have given up. Nothing but the fear of Alan lent me enough of a false kind of courage to continue.
	narrator	As for himself (and you are to bear in mind that he was cumbered with a great-coat) he had first turned crimson,
	narrator	but as time went on the redness began to be mingled with patches of white; his breath cried and whistled as it came; and his voice,
	narrator	when he whispered his observations in my ear during our halts, sounded like nothing human. Yet he seemed in no way dashed in spirits,
	narrator	nor did he at all abate in his activity, so that I was driven to marvel at the man's endurance.
	narrator	At length, in the first gloaming of the night, we heard a trumpet sound, and looking back from among the heather,
	narrator	saw the troop beginning to collect. A little after, they had built a fire and camped for the night,
	narrator	about the middle of the waste.
	david balfour	There shall be no sleep the night!
	alan	From now on, these weary dragoons of yours will keep the crown of the muirland, and none will get out of Appin but winged fowls.
	alan	We got through in the nick of time, and shall we jeopard what we've gained? Na,
	alan	na, when the day comes, it shall find you and me in a fast place on Ben Alder.
	david balfour	Alan, it's not the want of will: it's the strength that I want. If I could,
	david balfour	I would; but as sure as I'm alive I cannot.
	alan	Very well, then, I'll carry ye.
	david balfour	Lead away! I'll follow.
	narrator	He gave me one look as much as to say, 'Well done, David!' and off he set again at his top speed.
	narrator	It grew cooler and even a little darker (but not much) with the coming of the night.
	narrator	The sky was cloudless; it was still early in July, and pretty far north; in the darkest part of that night,
	narrator	you would have needed pretty good eyes to read, but for all that, I have often seen it darker in a winter mid-day.
	narrator	Heavy dew fell and drenched the moor like rain; and this refreshed me for a while.
	narrator	When we stopped to breathe, and I had time to see all about me, the clearness and sweetness of the night,
	narrator	the shapes of the hills like things asleep, and the fire dwindling away behind us, like a bright spot in the midst of the moor,
	narrator	anger would come upon me in a clap that I must still drag myself in agony and eat the dust like a worm.
	narrator	By what I have read in books, I think few that have held a pen were ever really wearied,
	narrator	or they would write of it more strongly. I had no care of my life, neither past nor future,
	narrator	and I scarce remembered there was such a lad as David Balfour. I did not think of myself,
	narrator	but just of each fresh step which I was sure would be my last, with despair--and of Alan,
	narrator	who was the cause of it, with hatred. Alan was in the right trade as a soldier; this is the officer's part to make men continue to do things,
	narrator	they know not wherefore, and when, if the choice was offered, they would lie down where they were and be killed.
	narrator	And I dare say I would have made a good enough private; for in these last hours it never occurred to me that I had any choice but just to obey as long as I was able,
	narrator	and die obeying. Day began to come in, after years, I thought; and by that time we were past the greatest danger,
	narrator	and could walk upon our feet like men, instead of crawling like brutes. But, dear heart have mercy!
	narrator	what a pair we must have made, going double like old grandfathers, stumbling like babes, and as white as dead folk.
	narrator	Never a word passed between us; each set his mouth and kept his eyes in front of him,
	narrator	and lifted up his foot and set it down again, like people lifting weights at a country play; all the while,
	narrator	with the moorfowl crying 'peep!' in the heather, and the light coming slowly clearer in the east.
	narrator	I say Alan did as I did. Not that ever I looked at him, for I had enough ado to keep my feet; but because it is plain he must have been as stupid with weariness as myself,
	narrator	and looked as little where we were going, or we should not have walked into an ambush like blind men.
	narrator	It fell in this way. We were going down a heathery brae, Alan leading and I following a pace or two behind,
	narrator	like a fiddler and his wife; when upon a sudden the heather gave a rustle, three or four ragged men leaped out,
	narrator	and the next moment we were lying on our backs, each with a dirk at his throat.
	narrator	I don’t think I cared; the pain of this rough handling was quite swallowed up by the pains of which I was already full; and I was too glad to have stopped walking to mind about a dirk.
	narrator	I lay looking up in the face of the man that held me; and I mind his face was black with the sun,
	narrator	and his eyes very light, but I was not afraid of him. I heard Alan and another whispering in the Gaelic; and what they said was all one to me.
	narrator	Then the dirks were put up, our weapons were taken away, and we were set face to face,
	narrator	sitting in the heather.
	alan	They are Cluny’s men. We couldnae have fallen better. We’re just to bide here with these,
	alan	which are his out-sentries, till they can get word to the chief of my arrival.
	narrator	Now Cluny Macpherson, the chief of the clan Vourich, had been one of the leaders of the great rebellion six years before; there was a price on his life; and I had supposed him long ago in France,
	narrator	with the rest of the heads of that desperate party. Even tired as I was, the surprise of what I heard half wakened me.
	david balfour	What, is Cluny still here?
	alan	Ay, is he so! Still in his own country and kept by his own clan. King George can do no more.
	david balfour	I think I would have asked farther, but Alan gave me the put-off. "I am rather wearied,"
	david balfour	he said, "and I would like fine to get a sleep." And without more words, he rolled on his face in a deep heather bush,
	david balfour	and seemed to sleep at once.
	narrator	There was no such thing possible for me. You have heard grasshoppers whirring in the grass in the summer time?
	narrator	Well, I had no sooner closed my eyes, than my body, and above all my head,
	narrator	belly, and wrists, seemed to be filled with whirring grasshoppers; and I must open my eyes again at once,
	narrator	and tumble and toss, and sit up and lie down; and look at the sky which dazzled me,
	narrator	or at Cluny’s wild and dirty sentries, peering out over the top of the brae and chattering to each other in the Gaelic.
	narrator	That was all the rest I had, until the messenger returned; when, as it appeared that Cluny would be glad to receive us,
	narrator	we must get once more upon our feet and set forward. Alan was in excellent good spirits,
	narrator	much refreshed by his sleep, very hungry, and looking pleasantly forward to a dram and a dish of hot collops,
	narrator	of which, it seems, the messenger had brought him word. For my part, it made me sick to hear of eating.
	narrator	I had been dead-heavy before, and now I felt a kind of dreadful lightness, which would not suffer me to walk.
	narrator	I drifted like a gossamer; the ground seemed to me a cloud, the hills a feather-weight,
	narrator	the air to have a current, like a running burn, which carried me to and fro.
	narrator	With all that, a sort of horror of despair sat on my mind, so that I could have wept at my own helplessness.
	narrator	I saw Alan knitting his brows at me, and supposed it was in anger; and that gave me a pang of light-headed fear,
	narrator	like what a child may have. I remember, too, that I was smiling, and could not stop smiling,
	narrator	hard as I tried; for I thought it was out of place at such a time.
	narrator	But my good companion had nothing in his mind but kindness; and the next moment, two of the gillies had me by the arms,
	narrator	and I began to be carried forward with great swiftness (or so it appeared to me,
	narrator	although I dare say it was slowly enough in truth), through a labyrinth of dreary glens and hollows and into the heart of that dismal mountain of Ben Alder.
