	narrator	Alan was the first to come round. He rose, went to the border of the wood,
	narrator	peered out a little, and then returned and sat down.
	alan	Well, yon was a hot burst, David.
	narrator	I said nothing, nor so much as lifted my face. I had seen murder done, and a great,
	narrator	ruddy, jovial gentleman struck out of life in a moment; the pity of that sight was still sore within me,
	narrator	and yet that was but a part of my concern. Here was murder done upon the man Alan hated; here was Alan skulking in the trees and running from the troops; and whether his was the hand that fired or only the head that ordered,
	narrator	signified but little. By my way of it, my only friend in that wild country was blood-guilty in the first degree; I held him in horror; I could not look upon his face; I would have rather lain alone in the rain on my cold isle,
	narrator	than in that warm wood beside a murderer.
	alan	Are ye still wearied?
	david	No, I am not wearied now, and I can speak. You and me must twine, I liked you very well,
	david	Alan, but your ways are not mine, and they're not God's: and the short and the long of it is just that we must twine.
	alan	I will hardly twine from ye, David, without some kind of reason for the same, If ye ken anything against my reputation,
	alan	it's the least thing that ye should do, for old acquaintance' sake, to let me hear the name of it; and if ye have only taken a distaste to my society,
	alan	it will be proper for me to judge if I'm insulted.
	david	Alan, what is the sense of this? Ye ken very well yon Campbell-man lies in his blood upon the road.
	narrator	He was silent for a little; then says he,
	alan	Did ever ye hear tell of the story of the Man and the Good People?
	narrator	--by which he meant the fairies.
	david	No, nor do I want to hear it.
	alan	With your permission, Mr. Balfour, I will tell it you, whatever, The man, ye should ken,
	alan	was cast upon a rock in the sea, where it appears the Good People were in use to come and rest as they went through to Ireland.
	alan	The name of this rock is called the Skerryvore, and it's not far from where we suffered ship-wreck.
	alan	Well, it seems the man cried so sore, if he could just see his little bairn before he died!
	alan	that at last the king of the Good People took peety upon him, and sent one flying that brought back the bairn in a poke and laid it down beside the man where he lay sleeping.
	alan	So when the man woke, there was a poke beside him and something into the inside of it that moved.
	alan	Well, it seems he was one of these gentry that think aye the worst of things; and for greater security,
	alan	he stuck his dirk throughout that poke before he opened it, and there was his bairn dead.
	alan	I am thinking to myself, Mr. Balfour, that you and the man are very much alike.
	david	Do you mean you had no hand in it? cried I, sitting up.
	alan	I will tell you first of all, Mr. Balfour of Shaws, as one friend to another,
	alan	that if I were going to kill a gentleman, it would not be in my own country,
	alan	to bring trouble on my clan; and I would not go wanting sword and gun, and with a long fishing-rod upon my back.
	david	Well, that's true!
	alan	And now, continued Alan, taking out his dirk and laying his hand upon it in a certain manner,
	alan	I swear upon the Holy Iron I had neither art nor part, act nor thought in it.
	david	I thank God for that! cried I, and offered him my hand.
	narrator	He did not appear to see it.
	alan	And here is a great deal of work about a Campbell! They are not so scarce,
	alan	that I ken!
	david	At least, you cannot justly blame me, for you know very well what you told me in the brig.
	david	But the temptation and the act are different, I thank God again for that. We may all be tempted; but to take a life in cold blood,
	david	Alan!
	narrator	And I could say no more for the moment.
	david	And do you know who did it? I added. "Do you know that man in the black coat?
	alan	I have nae clear mind about his coat, said Alan cunningly, "but it sticks in my head that it was blue.
	david	Blue or black, did ye know him?
	alan	I couldnae just conscientiously swear to him, says Alan. "He gaed very close by me, to be sure,
	alan	but it's a strange thing that I should just have been tying my brogues.
	david	Can you swear that you don't know him, Alan? I cried, half angered, half in a mind to laugh at his evasions.
	alan	Not yet, says he; "but I've a grand memory for forgetting, David.
	david	And yet there was one thing I saw clearly, said I; "and that was, that you exposed yourself and me to draw the soldiers.
	alan	It's very likely, said Alan; "and so would any gentleman. You and me were innocent of that transaction.
	david	The better reason, since we were falsely suspected, that we should get clear, I cried. "The innocent should surely come before the guilty.
	alan	Why, David, said he, "the innocent have aye a chance to get assoiled in court; but for the lad that shot the bullet,
	alan	I think the best place for him will be the heather. Them that havenae dipped their hands in any little difficulty,
	alan	should be very mindful of the case of them that have. And that is the good Christianity.
	alan	For if it was the other way round about, and the lad whom I couldnae just clearly see had been in our shoes,
	alan	and we in his (as might very well have been), I think we would be a good deal obliged to him oursel's if he would draw the soldiers.
	narrator	When it came to this, I gave Alan up. But he looked so innocent all the time,
	narrator	and was in such clear good faith in what he said, and so ready to sacrifice himself for what he deemed his duty,
	narrator	that my mouth was closed. Mr. Henderland's words came back to me: that we ourselves might take a lesson by these wild Highlanders.
	narrator	Well, here I had taken mine. Alan's morals were all tail-first; but he was ready to give his life for them,
	narrator	such as they were.
	david	Alan, I'll not say it's the good Christianity as I understand it, but it's good enough.
	david	And here I offer ye my hand for the second time.
	alan	Whereupon he gave me both of his, saying surely I had cast a spell upon him,
	alan	for he could forgive me anything. Then he grew very grave, and said we had not much time to throw away,
	alan	but must both flee that country: he, because he was a deserter, and the whole of Appin would now be searched like a chamber,
	alan	and every one obliged to give a good account of himself; and I, because I was certainly involved in the murder.
	david	O! says I, willing to give him a little lesson, I have no fear of the justice of my country.
	alan	As if this was your country! Or as if ye would be tried here, in a country of Stewarts!
	david	It's all Scotland.
	alan	Man, I whiles wonder at ye. This is a Campbell that's been killed. Well, it'll be tried in Inverara,
	alan	the Campbells' head place; with fifteen Campbells in the jury-box and the biggest Campbell of all (and that's the Duke) sitting cocking on the bench.
	alan	Justice, David? The same justice, by all the world, as Glenure found awhile ago at the roadside.
	david	This frightened me a little, I confess, and would have frightened me more if I had known how nearly exact were Alan's predictions; indeed it was but in one point that he exaggerated,
	david	there being but eleven Campbells on the jury; though as the other four were equally in the Duke's dependence,
	david	it mattered less than might appear. Still, I cried out that he was unjust to the Duke of Argyle,
	david	who (for all he was a Whig) was yet a wise and honest nobleman.
	alan	Hoot! said Alan, the man's a Whig, nae doubt; but I would never deny he was a good chieftain to his clan.
	alan	And what would the clan think if there was a Campbell shot, and naebody hanged, and their own chief the Justice General?
	alan	But I have often observed, says Alan, that you Low-country bodies have no clear idea of what's right and wrong.
	david	At this I did at last laugh out aloud, when to my surprise, Alan joined in,
	david	and laughed as merrily as myself.
	alan	Na, na, said he, we're in the Hielands, David; and when I tell ye to run,
	alan	take my word and run. Nae doubt it's a hard thing to skulk and starve in the Heather,
	alan	but it's harder yet to lie shackled in a red-coat prison.
	david	I asked him whither we should flee; and as he told me "to the Lowlands," I was a little better inclined to go with him; for,
	david	indeed, I was growing impatient to get back and have the upper-hand of my uncle. Besides,
	david	Alan made so sure there would be no question of justice in the matter, that I began to be afraid he might be right.
	david	Of all deaths, I would truly like least to die by the gallows; and the picture of that uncaney instrument came into my head with extraordinary clearness (as I had once seen it engraved at the top of a pedlar's ballad) and took away my appetite for courts of justice.
	david	I'll chance it, Alan, said I. I'll go with you.
	alan	But mind you, said Alan, it's no small thing. Ye maun lie bare and hard, and brook many an empty belly.
	alan	Your bed shall be the moorcock's, and your life shall be like the hunted deer's, and ye shall sleep with your hand upon your weapons.
	alan	Ay, man, ye shall taigle many a weary foot, or we get clear! I tell ye this at the start,
	alan	for it's a life that I ken well. But if ye ask what other chance ye have,
	alan	I answer: Nane. Either take to the heather with me, or else hang.
	david	And that's a choice very easily made, said I; and we shook hands upon it.
	alan	And now let's take another keek at the red-coats, says Alan, and he led me to the north-eastern fringe of the wood.
	david	Looking out between the trees, we could see a great side of mountain, running down exceeding steep into the waters of the loch.
	david	It was a rough part, all hanging stone, and heather, and big scrogs of birchwood; and away at the far end towards Balachulish,
	david	little wee red soldiers were dipping up and down over hill and howe, and growing smaller every minute.
	david	There was no cheering now, for I think they had other uses for what breath was left them; but they still stuck to the trail,
	david	and doubtless thought that we were close in front of them.
	alan	Alan watched them, smiling to himself. Ay, said he, they'll be gey weary before they've got to the end of that employ!
	alan	And so you and me, David, can sit down and eat a bite, and breathe a bit longer,
	alan	and take a dram from my bottle. Then we'll strike for Aucharn, the house of my kinsman,
	alan	James of the Glens, where I must get my clothes, and my arms, and money to carry us along; and then,
	alan	David, we'll cry, 'Forth, Fortune!' and take a cast among the heather.
	david	So we sat again and ate and drank, in a place whence we could see the sun going down into a field of great,
	david	wild, and houseless mountains, such as I was now condemned to wander in with my companion.
	david	Partly as we so sat, and partly afterwards, on the way to Aucharn, each of us narrated his adventures; and I shall here set down so much of Alan's as seems either curious or needful.
	david	It appears he ran to the bulwarks as soon as the wave was passed; saw me,
	david	and lost me, and saw me again, as I tumbled in the roost; and at last had one glimpse of me clinging on the yard.
	david	It was this that put him in some hope I would maybe get to land after all,
	david	and made him leave those clues and messages which had brought me (for my sins) to that unlucky country of Appin.
	david	In the meanwhile, those still on the brig had got the skiff launched, and one or two were on board of her already,
	david	when there came a second wave greater than the first, and heaved the brig out of her place,
	david	and would certainly have sent her to the bottom, had she not struck and caught on some projection of the reef.
	david	When she had struck first, it had been bows-on, so that the stern had hitherto been lowest.
	david	But now her stern was thrown in the air, and the bows plunged under the sea; and with that,
	david	the water began to pour into the fore-scuttle like the pouring of a mill-dam.
	narrator	It took the colour out of Alan's face, even to tell what followed. For there were still two men lying impotent in their bunks; and these,
	narrator	seeing the water pour in and thinking the ship had foundered, began to cry out aloud,
	narrator	and that with such harrowing cries that all who were on deck tumbled one after another into the skiff and fell to their oars.
	narrator	They were not two hundred yards away, when there came a third great sea; and at that the brig lifted clean over the reef; her canvas filled for a moment,
	narrator	and she seemed to sail in chase of them, but settling all the while; and presently she drew down and down,
	narrator	as if a hand was drawing her; and the sea closed over the _Covenant_ of Dysart.
	narrator	Never a word they spoke as they pulled ashore, being stunned with the horror of that screaming; but they had scarce set foot upon the beach when Hoseason woke up,
	narrator	as if out of a muse, and bade them lay hands upon Alan. They hung back indeed,
	narrator	having little taste for the employment; but Hoseason was like a fiend, crying that Alan was alone,
	narrator	that he had a great sum about him, that he had been the means of losing the brig and drowning all their comrades,
	narrator	and that here was both revenge and wealth upon a single cast. It was seven against one; in that part of the shore there was no rock that Alan could set his back to; and the sailors began to spread out and come behind him.
	alan	And then, the little man with the red head--I havenae mind of the name that he is called.
	david	Riach
	alan	Ay Riach! Well, it was him that took up the clubs for me, asked the men if they werenae feared of a judgment,
	alan	and, says he 'Dod, I'll put my back to the Hielandman's mysel'.' That's none such an entirely bad little man,
	alan	yon little man with the red head, he has some spunks of decency.
	david	Well, he was kind to me in his way.
	alan	And so he was to Alan, and by my troth, I found his way a very good one!
	alan	But ye see, David, the loss of the ship and the cries of these poor lads sat very ill upon the man; and I'm thinking that would be the cause of it.
	david	Well, I would think so, for he was as keen as any of the rest at the beginning.
	david	But how did Hoseason take it?
	alan	It sticks in my mind that he would take it very ill, says Alan. But the little man cried to me to run,
	alan	and indeed I thought it was a good observe, and ran. The last that I saw they were all in a knot upon the beach,
	alan	like folk that were not agreeing very well together.
	david	What do you mean by that?
	alan	Well, the fists were going
	narrator	said Alan
	alan	and I saw one man go down like a pair of breeks But I thought it would be better no to wait Ye see there's a strip of Campbells in that end of Mull,
	alan	which is no good company for a gentleman like me If it hadnae been for that I would have waited and looked for ye mysel',
	alan	let alone giving a hand to the little man
	narrator	(It was droll how Alan dwelt on Mr. Riach's stature, for, to say the truth, the one was not much smaller than the other)
	alan	So, says he, continuing, "I set my best foot forward and whenever I met in with any one I cried out there was a wreck ashore Man,
	alan	they didnae stop to fash with me! Ye should have seen them linking for the beach!
	alan	And when they got there they found they had had the pleasure of a run, which is aye good for a Campbell I'm thinking it was a judgment on the clan that the brig went down in the lump and didnae break But it was a very unlucky thing for
	alan	you, that same; for if any wreck had come ashore they would have hunted high and low,
	alan	and would soon have found ye
