	narrator	For some time Alan volleyed upon the door, and his knocking only roused the echoes of the house and neighbourhood.
	narrator	At last, however, I could hear the noise of a window gently thrust up, and knew that my uncle had come to his observatory.
	narrator	By what light there was, he would see Alan standing, like a dark shadow, on the steps; the three witnesses were hidden quite out of his view; so that there was nothing to alarm an honest man in his own house.
	narrator	For all that, he studied his visitor awhile in silence, and when he spoke his voice had a quaver of misgiving.
	ebenezer balfour	What's this? This is nae kind of time of night for decent folk; and I hae nae trokings wi'
	ebenezer balfour	night-hawks. What brings ye here? I have a blunderbush.
	alan	Is that yoursel', Mr. Balfour? Have a care of that blunderbuss; they're nasty things to burst.
	ebenezer balfour	What brings ye here? and whae are ye?
	alan	I have no manner of inclination to rowt out my name to the country-side. but what brings me here is another story,
	alan	being more of your affair than mine; and if ye're sure it's what ye would like,
	alan	I'll set it to a tune and sing it to you.
	ebenezer balfour	And what is't?
	alan	David.
	ebenezer balfour	What was that?
	alan	Shall I give ye the rest of the name, then?
	narrator	There was a pause; and then,
	ebenezer balfour	I'm thinking I'll better let ye in, doubtfully.
	alan	I dare say that, but the point is, Would I go? Now I will tell you what I am thinking.
	alan	I am thinking that it is here upon this doorstep that we must confer upon this business; and it shall be here or nowhere at all whatever; for I would have you to understand that I am as stiffnecked as yoursel',
	alan	and a gentleman of better family.
	narrator	This change of note disconcerted Ebenezer; he was a little while digesting it, and then says he,
	ebenezer balfour	Weel, weel, what must be must,
	narrator	and shut the window. But it took him a long time to get down-stairs, and a still longer to undo the fastenings,
	narrator	repenting (I dare say) and taken with fresh claps of fear at every second step and every bolt and bar.
	narrator	At last, however, we heard the creak of the hinges, and it seems my uncle slipped gingerly out and (seeing that Alan had stepped back a pace or two) sate him down on the top doorstep with the blunderbuss ready in his hands.
	ebenezer balfour	And, now mind I have my blunderbush, and if ye take a step nearer ye're as good as deid.
	alan	And a very civil speech, to be sure.
	ebenezer balfour	Na, but this is no a very chanty kind of a proceeding, and I'm bound to be prepared.
	ebenezer balfour	And now that we understand each other, ye'll can name your business.
	alan	Why, you that are a man of so much understanding, will doubtless have perceived that I am a Hieland gentleman.
	alan	My name has nae business in my story; but the county of my friends is no very far from the Isle of Mull,
	alan	of which ye will have heard. It seems there was a ship lost in those parts; and the next day a gentleman of my family was seeking wreck-wood for his fire along the sands,
	alan	when he came upon a lad that was half drowned. Well, he brought him to; and he and some other gentleman took and clapped him in an auld,
	alan	ruined castle, where from that day to this he has been a great expense to my friends.
	alan	My friends are a wee wild-like, and not so particular about the law as some that I could name; and finding that the lad owned some decent folk,
	alan	and was your born nephew, Mr. Balfour, they asked me to give ye a bit call and confer upon the matter.
	alan	And I may tell ye at the off-go, unless we can agree upon some terms, ye are little likely to set eyes upon him.
	alan	For my friends, added Alan, simply, "are no very well off.
	narrator	My uncle cleared his throat.
	ebenezer balfour	I’m no very caring, He wasnae a good lad at the best of it, and I’ve nae call to interfere.
	alan	Ay, ay, I see what ye would be at: pretending ye don’t care, to make the ransom smaller.
	ebenezer balfour	Na, it’s the mere truth. I take nae manner of interest in the lad, and I’ll pay nae ransome,
	ebenezer balfour	and ye can make a kirk and a mill of him for what I care.
	alan	Hoot, sir, Blood’s thicker than water, in the deil’s name! Ye cannae desert your brother’s son for the fair shame of it; and if ye did,
	alan	and it came to be kennt, ye wouldnae be very popular in your country-side, or I’m the more deceived.
	ebenezer balfour	I’m no just very popular the way it is, and I dinnae see how it would come to be kennt.
	ebenezer balfour	No by me, onyway; nor yet by you or your friends. So that’s idle talk, my buckie,
	alan	Then it’ll have to be David that tells it,
	ebenezer balfour	How that?
	alan	Ou, just this way, My friends would doubtless keep your nephew as long as there was any likelihood of siller to be made of it,
	alan	but if there was nane, I am clearly of opinion they would let him gang where he pleased,
	alan	and be damned to him!
	ebenezer balfour	Ay, but I’m no very caring about that either, I wouldnae be muckle made up with that.
	alan	I was thinking that,
	ebenezer balfour	And what for why?
	alan	Why, Mr. Balfour, by all that I could hear, there were two ways of it: either ye liked David and would pay to get him back; or else ye had very good reasons for not wanting him,
	alan	and would pay for us to keep him. It seems it’s not the first; well then,
	alan	it’s the second; and blythe am I to ken it, for it should be a pretty penny in my pocket and the pockets of my friends.
	ebenezer balfour	I dinnae follow ye there,
	alan	No? Well, see here: you dinnae want the lad back; well, what do ye want done with him,
	alan	and how much will ye pay?
	narrator	My uncle made no answer, but shifted uneasily on his seat.
	alan	Come, sir, I would have you to ken that I am a gentleman; I bear a king's name; I am nae rider to kick my shanks at your hall door.
	alan	Either give me an answer in civility, and that out of hand; or by the top of Glencoe,
	alan	I will ram three feet of iron through your vitals.
	ebenezer balfour	Eh, man, cried my uncle, scrambling to his feet, give me a meenit! What's like wrong with ye?
	ebenezer balfour	I'm just a plain man and nae dancing master; and I'm tryin to be as ceevil as it's morally possible.
	ebenezer balfour	As for that wild talk, it's fair disrepitable. Vitals, says you! And where would I be with my blunderbush?
	alan	Powder and your auld hands are but as the snail to the swallow against the bright steel in the hands of Alan.
	alan	Before your jottering finger could find the trigger, the hilt would dirl on your breast-bane.
	ebenezer balfour	Eh, man, whae's denying it? Pit it as ye please, hae't your ain way; I'll do naething to cross ye.
	ebenezer balfour	Just tell me what like ye'll be wanting, and ye'll see that we'll can agree fine.
	alan	Troth, sir, I ask for nothing but plain dealing. In two words: do ye want the lad killed or kept?
	ebenezer balfour	O, sirs! cried Ebenezer. O, sirs, me! that's no kind of language!
	alan	Killed or kept!
	ebenezer balfour	O, keepit, keepit! wailed my uncle. We'll have nae bloodshed, if you please.
	alan	Well, says Alan, as ye please; that'll be the dearer.
	ebenezer balfour	The dearer? cries Ebenezer. Would ye fyle your hands wi' crime?
	alan	Hoot! said Alan, they're baith crime, whatever! And the killing's easier, and quicker, and surer. Keeping the lad'll be a fashious job,
	alan	a fashious, kittle business.
	ebenezer balfour	I'll have him keepit, though, returned my uncle. I never had naething to do with onything morally wrong; and I'm no gaun to begin to pleasure a wild Hielandman.
	alan	Ye're unco scrupulous, sneered Alan.
	ebenezer balfour	I'm a man o' principle, said Ebenezer, simply; and if I have to pay for it,
	ebenezer balfour	I'll have to pay for it. And besides, says he, ye forget the lad's my brother's son.
	alan	Well, well, said Alan, and now about the price. It's no very easy for me to set a name upon it; I would first have to ken some small matters.
	alan	I would have to ken, for instance, what ye gave Hoseason at the first off-go?
	ebenezer balfour	Hoseason! cries my uncle, struck aback. What for?
	alan	For kidnapping David.
	ebenezer balfour	It's a lee, it's a black lee! cried my uncle. He was never kidnapped. He leed in his throat that tauld ye that.
	ebenezer balfour	Kidnapped? He never was!
	alan	That's no fault of mine nor yet of yours, said Alan; nor yet of Hoseason's, if he's a man that can be trusted.
	ebenezer balfour	What do ye mean? cried Ebenezer. Did Hoseason tell ye?
	alan	Why, ye donnered auld runt, how else would I ken? cried Alan. Hoseason and me are partners; we gang shares; so ye can see for yersel'
	alan	what good ye can do leeing. And I must plainly say ye drove a fool's bargain when ye let a man like the sailor-man so far forward in your private matters.
	alan	But that's past praying for; and ye must lie on your bed the way ye made it.
	alan	And the point in hand is just this: what did ye pay him?
	ebenezer balfour	Has he tauld ye himsel'? asked my uncle.
	alan	That's my concern, said Alan.
	ebenezer balfour	Weel, said my uncle, I dinnae care what he said, he leed, and the solemn God's truth is this,
	ebenezer balfour	that I gave him twenty pound. But I'll be perfec'ly honest with ye: forby that, he was to have the selling of the lad in Caroliny,
	ebenezer balfour	whilk would be as muckle mair, but no from my pocket, ye see.
	rankeillor	Thank you, Mr. Thomson. That will do excellently well, Good-evening, Mr. Balfour,
	torrance	Good-evening, Uncle Ebenezer, It's a braw nicht, Mr. Balfour,
	alan	Come, come, Mr. Ebenezer, said the lawyer, you must not be down-hearted, for I promise you we shall make easy terms.
	alan	In the meanwhile give us the cellar key, and Torrance shall draw us a bottle of your father's wine in honour of the event.
	rankeillor	Mr. David, says he, I wish you all joy in your good fortune, which I believe to be deserved.
	rankeillor	Mr. Thomson, I pay you my compliment; it was most artfully conducted; but in one point you somewhat outran my comprehension.
	rankeillor	Do I understand your name to be James? or Charles? or is it George, perhaps?
	alan	And why should it be any of the three, sir? quoth Alan, drawing himself up, like one who smelt an offence.
	rankeillor	Only, sir, that you mentioned a king's name, replied Rankeillor; and as there has never yet been a King Thomson,
	rankeillor	or his fame at least has never come my way, I judged you must refer to that you had in baptism.
	alan	Well, well,
	narrator	This was just the stab that Alan would feel keenest, and I am free to confess he took it very ill.
	narrator	Not a word would he answer, but stepped off to the far end of the kitchen,
	narrator	and sat down and sulked; and it was not till I stepped after him, and gave him my hand,
	narrator	and thanked him by title as the chief spring of my success, that he began to smile a bit,
	narrator	and was at last prevailed upon to join our party. By that time we had the fire lighted,
	narrator	and a bottle of wine uncorked; a good supper came out of the basket, to which Torrance and I and Alan set ourselves down; while the lawyer and my uncle passed into the next chamber to consult.
	narrator	They stayed there closeted about an hour; at the end of which period they had come to a good understanding,
	narrator	and my uncle and I set our hands to the agreement in a formal manner. By the terms of this,
	narrator	my uncle bound himself to satisfy Rankeillor as to his intromissions, and to pay me two clear thirds of the yearly income of Shaws.
	narrator	So the beggar in the ballad had come home; and when I lay down that night on the kitchen chests,
	narrator	I was a man of means and had a name in the country. Alan and Torrance and Rankeillor slept and snored on their hard beds; but for me who had lain out under heaven and upon dirt and stones,
	narrator	so many days and nights, and often with an empty belly, and in fear of death,
	narrator	this good change in my case unmanned me more than any of the former evil ones; and I lay till dawn,
	narrator	looking at the fire on the roof and planning the future.
