	narrator	Alan and I were put across Loch Errocht under cloud of night, and went down its eastern shore to another hiding-place near the head of Loch Rannoch,
	narrator	whither we were led by one of the gillies from the Cage. This fellow carried all our luggage and Alan's great-coat in the bargain,
	narrator	trotting along under the burthen, far less than the half of which used to weigh me to the ground,
	narrator	like a stout hill pony with a feather; yet he was a man that, in plain contest,
	narrator	I could have broken on my knee. Doubtless it was a great relief to walk disencumbered; and perhaps without that relief,
	narrator	and the consequent sense of liberty and lightness, I could not have walked at all. I was but new risen from a bed of sickness; and there was nothing in the state of our affairs to hearten me for much exertion; travelling,
	narrator	as we did, over the most dismal deserts in Scotland, under a cloudy heaven, and with divided hearts among the travellers.
	narrator	For long, we said nothing; marching alongside or one behind the other, each with a set countenance: I,
	narrator	angry and proud, and drawing what strength I had from these two violent and sinful feelings; Alan angry and ashamed,
	narrator	ashamed that he had lost my money, angry that I should take it so ill. The thought of a separation ran always the stronger in my mind; and the more I approved of it,
	narrator	the more ashamed I grew of my approval. It would be a fine, handsome, generous thing,
	narrator	indeed, for Alan to turn round and say to me: "Go, I am in the most danger,
	narrator	and my company only increases yours." But for me to turn to the friend who certainly loved me,
	narrator	and say to him: "You are in great danger, I am in but little; your friendship is a burden; go,
	narrator	take your risks and bear your hardships alone----" no, that was impossible; and even to think of it privily to myself,
	narrator	made my cheeks to burn. And yet Alan had behaved like a child, and (what is worse) a treacherous child.
	narrator	Wheedling my money from me while I lay half-conscious was scarce better than theft; and yet here he was trudging by my side,
	narrator	without a penny to his name, and by what I could see, quite blithe to sponge upon the money he had driven me to beg.
	narrator	True, I was ready to share it with him; but it made me rage to see him count upon my readiness.
	narrator	These were the two things uppermost in my mind; and I could open my mouth upon neither without black ungenerosity.
	narrator	So I did the next worst, and said nothing, nor so much as looked once at my companion,
	narrator	save with the tail of my eye. At last, upon the other side of Loch Errocht,
	narrator	going over a smooth, rushy place, where the walking was easy, he could bear it no longer,
	narrator	and came close to me.
	alan breck	David, this is no way for two friends to take a small accident. I have to say that I'm sorry; and so that's said.
	alan breck	And now if you have anything, ye'd better say it.
	david	O, I have nothing.
	alan breck	No, said he, with rather a trembling voice, "but when I say I was to blame?
	david	Why, of course, ye were to blame, said I, coolly; and you will bear me out that I have never reproached you.
	alan breck	Never, says he; "but ye ken very well that ye've done worse. Are we to part?
	alan breck	Ye said so once before. Are ye to say it again? There's hills and heather enough between here and the two seas,
	alan breck	David; and I will own I'm no very keen to stay where I'm no wanted.
	narrator	This pierced me like a sword, and seemed to lay bare my private disloyalty.
	david	Alan Breck! Do you think I am one to turn my back on you in your chief need?
	david	You dursn't say it to my face. My whole conduct's there to give the lie to it.
	david	It's true, I fell asleep upon the muir; but that was from weariness, and you do wrong to cast it up to me----
	alan breck	Which is what I never did,
	david	But aside from that, I continued, "what have I done that you should even me to dogs by such a supposition?
	david	I never yet failed a friend, and it's not likely I'll begin with you. There are things between us that I can never forget,
	david	even if you can.
	alan breck	I will only say this to ye, David, said Alan, very quietly, "that I have long been owing ye my life,
	alan breck	and now I owe ye money. Ye should try to make that burden light for me.
	narrator	This ought to have touched me, and in a manner it did, but the wrong manner.
	narrator	I felt I was behaving badly; and was now not only angry with Alan, but angry with myself in the bargain; and it made me the more cruel.
	david	You asked me to speak, said I. Well, then, I will. You own yourself that you have done me a disservice; I have had to swallow an affront: I have never reproached you,
	david	I never named the thing till you did. And now you blame me," cried I, "because I cannae laugh and sing as if I was glad to be affronted.
	david	The next thing will be that I'm to go down upon my knees and thank you for it!
	david	Ye should think more of others, Alan Breck. If ye thought more of others, ye would perhaps speak less about yourself; and when a friend that likes you very well has passed over an offence without a word,
	david	you would be blithe to let it lie, instead of making it a stick to break his back with.
	david	By your own way of it, it was you that was to blame; then it shouldnae be you to seek the quarrel.
	alan breck	Aweel, said Alan, "say nae mair.
	narrator	And we fell back into our former silence; and came to our journey's end, and supped,
	narrator	and lay down to sleep, without another word. The gillie put us across Loch Rannoch in the dusk of the next day,
	narrator	and gave us his opinion as to our best route. This was to get us up at once into the tops of the mountains: to go round by a circuit,
	narrator	turning the heads of Glen Lyon, Glen Lochay, and Glen Dochart, and come down upon the lowlands by Kippen and the upper waters of the Forth.
	narrator	Alan was little pleased with a route which led us through the country of his blood-foes,
	narrator	the Glenorchy Campbells.
	alan breck	He objected that by turning to the east, we should come almost at once among the Athole Stewarts,
	alan breck	a race of his own name and lineage, although following a different chief, and come besides by a far easier and swifter way to the place whither we were bound.
	narrator	But the gillie, who was indeed the chief man of Cluny's scouts, had good reasons to give him on all hands,
	narrator	naming the force of troops in every district, and alleging finally (as well as I could understand) that we should nowhere be so little troubled as in a country of the Campbells.
	alan breck	Alan gave way at last, but with only half a heart. It's one of the dowiest countries in Scotland.
	alan breck	There's naething there that I ken, but heath, and crows, and Campbells. But I see that ye're a man of some penetration; and be it as ye please!
	narrator	We set forth accordingly by this itinerary; and for the best part of three nights travelled on eerie mountains and among the well-heads of wild rivers; often buried in mist,
	narrator	almost continually blown and rained upon, and not once cheered by any glimpse of sunshine. By day,
	narrator	we lay and slept in the drenching heather; by night, incessantly clambered upon break-neck hills and among rude crags.
	narrator	We often wandered; we were often so involved in fog, that we must lie quiet till it lightened.
	narrator	A fire was never to be thought of. Our only food was drammach and a portion of cold meat that we had carried from the Cage; and as for drink,
	narrator	Heaven knows we had no want of water. This was a dreadful time, rendered the more dreadful by the gloom of the weather and the country.
	narrator	I was never warm; my teeth chattered in my head; I was troubled with a very sore throat,
	narrator	such as I had on the isle; I had a painful stitch in my side, which never left me; and when I slept in my wet bed,
	narrator	with the rain beating above and the mud oozing below me, it was to live over again in fancy the worst part of my adventures--to see the tower of Shaws lit by lightning,
	narrator	Ransome carried below on the men's backs, Shuan dying on the round-house floor, or Colin Campbell grasping at the bosom of his coat.
	narrator	From such broken slumbers, I would be aroused in the gloaming, to sit up in the same puddle where I had slept,
	narrator	and sup cold drammach; the rain driving sharp in my face or running down my back in icy trickles; the mist enfolding us like as in a gloomy chamber--or,
	narrator	perhaps, if the wind blew, falling suddenly apart and showing us the gulf of some dark valley where the streams were crying aloud.
	narrator	The sound of an infinite number of rivers came up from all round. In this steady rain the springs of the mountain were broken up; every glen gushed water like a cistern; every stream was in high spate,
	narrator	and had filled and overflowed its channel. During our night tramps, it was solemn to hear the voice of them below in the valleys,
	narrator	now booming like thunder, now with an angry cry. I could well understand the story of the Water Kelpie,
	narrator	that demon of the streams, who is fabled to keep wailing and roaring at the ford until the coming of the doomed traveller.
	alan breck	I saw believed it, or half believed it;
	narrator	and when the cry of the river rose more than usually sharp, I was little surprised (though,
	narrator	of course, I would still be shocked) to see him cross himself in the manner of the Catholics.
	narrator	During all these horrid wanderings we had no familiarity, scarcely even that of speech. The truth is that I was sickening for my grave,
	narrator	which is my best excuse. But besides that I was of an unforgiving disposition from my birth,
	narrator	slow to take offence, slower to forget it, and now incensed both against my companion and myself.
	narrator	For the best part of two days he was unweariedly kind; silent, indeed, but always ready to help,
	narrator	and always hoping (as I could very well see) that my displeasure would blow by. For the same length of time I stayed in myself,
	narrator	nursing my anger, roughly refusing his services, and passing him over with my eyes as if he had been a bush or a stone.
	narrator	The second night, or rather the peep of the third day, found us upon a very open hill,
	narrator	so that we could not follow our usual plan and lie down immediately to eat and sleep.
	narrator	Before we had reached a place of shelter, the grey had come pretty clear, for though it still rained,
	narrator	the clouds ran higher; and Alan, looking in my face, showed some marks of concern.
	alan breck	Ye had better let me take your pack.
	david	I do very well, I thank you.
	alan breck	I'll not offer it again. I'm not a patient man, David.
	david	I never said you were.
	narrator	which was exactly the rude, silly speech of a boy of ten.
	alan breck	I'll not offer it again. I'm not a patient man, David.
	narrator	Alan made no answer at the time, but his conduct answered for him. Henceforth, it is to be thought,
	narrator	he quite forgave himself for the affair at Cluny's; cocked his hat again, walked jauntily, whistled airs,
	narrator	and looked at me upon one side with a provoking smile. The third night we were to pass through the western end of the country of Balquhidder.
	narrator	It came clear and cold, with a touch in the air like frost, and a northerly wind that blew the clouds away and made the stars bright.
	narrator	The streams were full, of course, and still made a great noise among the hills; but I observed that Alan thought no more upon the Kelpie,
	narrator	and was in high good spirits. As for me, the change of weather came too late; I had lain in the mire so long that (as the Bible has it) my very clothes "abhorred me."
	narrator	I was dead weary, deadly sick and full of pains and shiverings; the chill of the wind went through me,
	narrator	and the sound of it confused my ears. In this poor state I had to bear from my companion something in the nature of a persecution.
	narrator	He spoke a good deal, and never without a taunt.
	alan breck	Whig" was the best name he had to give me. Here," he would say, "here's a dub for ye to jump,
	alan breck	my Whiggie! I ken you're a fine jumper!
	narrator	And so on; all the time with a gibing voice and face. I knew it was my own doing,
	narrator	and no one else's; but I was too miserable to repent. I felt I could drag myself but little farther; pretty soon,
	narrator	I must lie down and die on these wet mountains like a sheep or a fox,
	narrator	and my bones must whiten there like the bones of a beast. My head was light perhaps; but I began to love the prospect,
	narrator	I began to glory in the thought of such a death, alone in the desert, with the wild eagles besieging my last moments.
	narrator	Alan would repent then, I thought; he would remember, when I was dead, how much he owed me,
	narrator	and the remembrance would be torture. So I went like a sick, silly, and bad-hearted schoolboy,
	narrator	feeding my anger against a fellow-man, when I would have been better on my knees, crying on God for mercy.
	narrator	And at each of Alan's taunts, I hugged myself. "Ah!" thinks I to myself, "I have a better taunt in readiness; when I lie down and die,
	narrator	you will feel it like a buffet in your face; ah, what a revenge! ah, how you will regret your ingratitude and cruelty!"
	narrator	All the while, I was growing worse and worse. Once I had fallen, my leg simply doubling under me,
	narrator	and this had struck Alan for the moment; but I was afoot so briskly, and set off again with such a natural manner,
	narrator	that he soon forgot the incident. Flushes of heat went over me, and then spasms of shuddering.
	narrator	The stitch in my side was hardly bearable. At last I began to feel that I could trail myself no farther: and with that,
	narrator	there came on me all at once the wish to have it out with Alan, let my anger blaze,
	narrator	and be done with my life in a more sudden manner. He had just called me "Whig."
	narrator	I stopped.
	david	Mr. Stewart, you are older than I am, and should know your manners. Do you think it either very wise or very witty to cast my politics in my teeth?
	david	I thought, where folk differed, it was the part of gentlemen to differ civilly; and if I did not,
	david	I may tell you I could find a better taunt than some of yours.
	narrator	Alan had stopped opposite to me, his hat cocked, his hands in his breeches pockets, his head a little on one side.
	narrator	He listened, smiling evilly, as I could see by the starlight; and when I had done he began to whistle a Jacobite air.
	narrator	It was the air made in mockery of General Cope's defeat at Preston Pans: "Hey, Johnnie Cope,
	narrator	are ye waukin’ yet? And are your drums a-beatin’ yet?" And it came in my mind that Alan,
	narrator	on the day of that battle, had been engaged upon the royal side.
	david	Why do ye take that air, Mr. Stewart? Is that to remind me you have been beaten on both sides?
	alan breck	David!
	david	But it's time these manners ceased, and I mean you shall henceforth speak civilly of my King and my good friends the Campbells.
	alan breck	I am a Stewart--
	david	O! says I, "I ken ye bear a king's name." But you are to remember, since I have been in the Highlands,
	david	I have seen a good many of those that bear it; and the best I can say of them is this,
	david	that they would be none the worse of washing.
	alan breck	Do you know that you insult me?
	david	I am sorry for that, for I am not done; and if you distaste the sermon,
	david	I doubt the pirliecue[29] will please you as little. You have been chased in the field by the grown men of my party; it seems a poor kind of pleasure to out-face a boy.
	david	Both the Campbells and the Whigs have beaten you; you have run before them like a hare.
	david	It behoves you to speak of them as of your betters.
	narrator	[29] A second sermon.
	alan breck	This is a pity, he said at last. There are things said that cannot be passed over.
	david	I never asked you to, said I. I am as ready as yourself.
	alan breck	Ready?
	david	Ready, I repeated. I am no blower and boaster like some that I could name. Come on!
	narrator	And drawing my sword, I fell on guard as Alan himself had taught me.
	alan breck	David! Are ye daft? I cannae draw upon ye, David. It's fair murder.
	david	That was your look-out when you insulted me, said I.
	alan breck	It's the truth! cried Alan, and he stood for a moment, wringing his mouth in his hand like a man in sore perplexity.
	alan breck	It's the bare truth, he said, and drew his sword.
	narrator	But before I could touch his blade with mine, he had thrown it from him and fallen to the ground.
	alan breck	Na, na, he kept saying, "na, na--I cannae, I cannae.
	narrator	At this the last of my anger oozed all out of me; and I found myself only sick,
	narrator	and sorry, and blank, and wondering at myself. I would have given the world to take back what I had said; but a word once spoken,
	narrator	who can recapture it? I minded me of all Alan's kindness and courage in the past,
	narrator	how he had helped and cheered and borne with me in our evil days; and then recalled my own insults,
	narrator	and saw that I had lost for ever that doughty friend. At the same time, the sickness that hung upon me seemed to redouble,
	narrator	and the pang in my side was like a sword for sharpness. I thought I must have swooned where I stood.
	narrator	This it was that gave me a thought. No apology could blot out what I had said; it was needless to think of one,
	narrator	none could cover the offence; but where an apology was vain, a mere cry for help might bring Alan back to my side.
	narrator	I put my pride away from me.
	david	Alan! if ye cannae help me, I must just die here.
	alan breck	It's true,
	david	I'm by with it. O, let me get into the bield of a house--I'll can die there easier.
	narrator	I had no need to pretend; whether I chose or not, I spoke in a weeping voice that would have melted a heart of stone.
	alan breck	Can ye walk?
	david	No, not without help. This last hour my legs have been fainting under me; I've a stitch in my side like a red-hot iron; I cannae breathe right.
	david	If I die, ye'll can forgive me, Alan? In my heart, I liked ye fine--even when I was the angriest.
	alan breck	Wheesht, wheesht! Dinna say that! David man, ye ken-- He shut his mouth upon a sob.
	alan breck	Let me get my arm about ye, that's the way! Now lean upon me hard. Gude kens where there's a house!
	alan breck	We're in Balwhidder, too; there should be no want of houses, no, nor friends' houses here.
	alan breck	Do ye gang easier so, Davie?
	david	Ay, I can be doing this way;
	narrator	and I pressed his arm with my hand.
	alan breck	Again he came near sobbing. Davie, I'm no a right man at all; I have neither sense nor kindness; I could nae remember ye were just a bairn,
	alan breck	I couldnae see ye were dying on your feet; Davie, ye'll have to try and forgive me.
	david	O man, let's say no more about it! We're neither one of us to mend the other--that's the truth!
	david	We must just bear and forbear, man Alan. O, but my stitch is sore! Is there nae house?
	alan breck	I'll find a house to ye, David, he said, stoutly. We'll follow down the burn, where there's bound to be houses.
	alan breck	My poor man, will ye no be better on my back?
	david	O, Alan, and me a good twelve inches taller?
	alan breck	Ye're no such a thing, cried Alan, with a start. There may be a trifling matter of an inch or two; I'm no saying I'm just exactly what ye would call a tall man,
	alan breck	whatever; and I dare say, he added, his voice tailing off in a laughable manner, now when I come to think of it,
	alan breck	I dare say ye'll be just about right. Ay, it'll be a foot, or near hand; or may be even mair!
	narrator	It was sweet and laughable to hear Alan eat his words up in the fear of some fresh quarrel.
	narrator	I could have laughed, had not my stitch caught me so hard; but if I had laughed,
	narrator	I think I must have wept too.
	david	Alan, what makes ye so good to me? What makes ye care for such a thankless fellow?
	alan breck	Deed, and I don't know, said Alan. For just precisely what I thought I liked about ye,
	alan breck	was that ye never quarrelled:--and now I like ye better!
