	narrator	Having made what change I could in my appearance; and blithe was I to look in the glass and find the beggarman a thing of the past,
	narrator	and David Balfour come to life again. And yet I was ashamed of the change too,
	narrator	and, above all, of the borrowed clothes. When I had done, Mr. Rankeillor caught me on the stair,
	narrator	made me his compliments, and had me again into the cabinet.
	mr. rankeillor	Sit ye down, Mr. David, and now that you are looking a little more like yourself,
	mr. rankeillor	let me see if I can find you any news. You will be wondering, no doubt,
	mr. rankeillor	about your father and your uncle? To be sure it is a singular tale; and the explanation is one that I blush to have to offer you.
	mr. rankeillor	For, the matter hinges on a love affair.
	david balfour	Truly, I cannot very well join that notion with my uncle.
	mr. rankeillor	But your uncle, Mr. David, was not always old, and what may perhaps surprise you more,
	mr. rankeillor	not always ugly. He had a fine, gallant air; people stood in their doors to look after him,
	mr. rankeillor	as he went by upon a mettle horse. I have seen it with these eyes, and I ingenuously confess,
	mr. rankeillor	not altogether without envy; for I was a plain lad myself and a plain man's son; and in those days it was a case of _Odi te,
	mr. rankeillor	qui bellus es, Sabelle_.
	david balfour	It sounds like a dream.
	mr. rankeillor	Ay, ay, that is how it is with youth and age. Nor was that all, but he had a spirit of his own that seemed to promise great things in the future.
	mr. rankeillor	In 1715, what must he do but run away to join the rebels? It was your father that pursued him,
	mr. rankeillor	found him in a ditch, and brought him back _multum gementem;_ to the mirth of the whole country.
	mr. rankeillor	However, _majora canamus_--the two lads fell in love, and that with the same lady. Mr. Ebenezer,
	mr. rankeillor	who was the admired and the beloved, and the spoiled one, made, no doubt, mighty certain of the victory; and when he found he had deceived himself,
	mr. rankeillor	screamed like a peacock. The whole country heard of it; now he lay sick at home,
	mr. rankeillor	with his silly family standing round the bed in tears; now he rode from public-house to public-house,
	mr. rankeillor	and shouted his sorrows into the lug of Tom, Dick, and Harry. Your father, Mr. David,
	mr. rankeillor	was a kind gentleman; but he was weak, dolefully weak; took all this folly with a long countenance; and one day--by your leave!--resigned the lady.
	mr. rankeillor	She was no such fool, however; it's from her you must inherit your excellent good sense; and she refused to be bandied from one to another.
	mr. rankeillor	Both got upon their knees to her; and the upshot of the matter for that while was that she showed both of them the door.
	mr. rankeillor	That was in August; dear me! the same year I came from college. The scene must have been highly farcical.
	david balfour	I thought myself it was a silly business, but I could not forget my father had a hand in it.
	david balfour	Surely, sir, it had some note of tragedy,
	narrator	- David Balfour (male): The protagonist of the chapter, a young man who has recently discovered his inheritance and is seeking to reclaim his family estate.
	narrator	He is described as having changed his appearance from a beggarman to someone who looks more like himself.
	narrator	He is determined and strategic, planning a scheme with his lawyer to deal with his uncle.
	narrator	- Mr. Rankeillor (male): A lawyer who serves as David's advisor and confidant. He is knowledgeable about the family history,
	narrator	particularly regarding the inheritance dispute with David's uncle. He is shrewd and practical, offering advice on how to handle the situation diplomatically.
	narrator	- Ebenezer (*male): David's uncle, described as having changed from a gallant young man to an old and selfish man.
	narrator	He is the current owner of the Shaws estate, which David believes should rightfully belong to him.
	narrator	- Torrance (*male): Mr. Rankeillor's clerk who accompanies them on their mission to Shaws. He is described as a 'poor oaf'
	narrator	and serves as a witness in their scheme. - Alan Breck (*male): David's friend who is involved in the scheme to confront his uncle.
	narrator	He is described as a Highlandman with a strong sense of honor and is willing to help David in his quest for justice.
	narrator	- Mrs. Rankeillor (*female): Mr. Rankeillor's wife who is present during their discussion and later joins them for dinner.
	narrator	PASSAGE:
	mr. rankeillor	Why, no, sir, not at all For tragedy implies some ponderable matter in dispute, some _dignus vindice nodus;_ and this piece of work was all about the petulance of a young ass that had been spoiled,
	mr. rankeillor	and wanted nothing so much as to be tied up and soundly belt However, that was not your father's view; and the end of it was,
	mr. rankeillor	that from concession to concession on your father's part, and from one height to another of squalling,
	mr. rankeillor	sentimental selfishness upon your uncle's, they came at last to drive a sort of bargain, from whose ill results you have recently been smarting The one man took the lady,
	mr. rankeillor	the other the estate Now, Mr. David, they talk a great deal of charity and generosity; but in this disputable state of life,
	mr. rankeillor	I often think the happiest consequences seem to flow when a gentleman consults his lawyer, and takes all the law allows him Anyhow,
	mr. rankeillor	this piece of Quixotry on your father's part, as it was unjust in itself, has brought forth a monstrous family of injustices Your father and mother lived and died poor folk; you were poorly reared; and in the meanwhile,
	mr. rankeillor	what a time it has been for the tenants on the estate of Shaws And I might add (if it was a matter I cared much about) what a time for Mr. Ebenezer
	david balfour	And yet that is certainly the strangest part of all that a man's nature should thus change
	mr. rankeillor	True And yet I imagine it was natural enough He could not think that he had played a handsome part Those who knew the story gave him the cold shoulder; those who knew it not,
	mr. rankeillor	seeing one brother disappear, and the other succeed in the estate, raised a cry of murder; so that upon all sides he found himself evited Money was all he got by his bargain; well,
	mr. rankeillor	he came to think the more of money He was selfish when he was young, he is selfish now that he is old; and the latter end of all these pretty manners and fine feelings you have seen for yourself
	david balfour	Well, sir and in all this, what is my position
	mr. rankeillor	The estate is yours beyond a doubt It matters nothing what your father signed, you are the heir of entail But your uncle is a man to fight the indefensible; and it would be likely your identity that he would call in question A lawsuit is always expensive,
	mr. rankeillor	and a family lawsuit always scandalous Besides which, if any of your doings with your friend Mr. Thomson were to come out,
	mr. rankeillor	we might find that we had burned our fingers The kidnapping, to be sure, would be a court card upon our side,
	mr. rankeillor	if we could only prove it But it may be difficult to prove; and my advice (upon the whole) is to make a very easy bargain with your uncle,
	mr. rankeillor	perhaps even leaving him at Shaws where he has taken root for a quarter of a century,
	mr. rankeillor	and contenting yourself in the meanwhile with a fair provision
	narrator	I told him I was very willing to be easy, and that to carry family concerns before the public was a step from which I was naturally much aversive.
	narrator	In the meantime (thinking to myself) I began to see the outlines of that scheme on which we afterwards acted.
	narrator	The great affair,
	david balfour	I asked, "is to bring home to him the kidnapping?
	mr. rankeillor	Surely,
	narrator	said Mr. Rankeillor, "and if possible, out of court. For mark
	mr. rankeillor	you here, Mr. David: we could no doubt find some men of the _Covenant_ who would swear to your reclusion; but once they were in the box,
	mr. rankeillor	we could no longer check their testimony, and some word of your friend Mr. Thomson must certainly crop out.
	mr. rankeillor	Which (from what you have let fall) I cannot think to be desirable.
	david balfour	Well, sir,
	narrator	said I, "here is my way of it." And I opened my plot to him.
	mr. rankeillor	But this would seem to involve my meeting the man Thomson?
	david balfour	says he, when I had done. I think so, indeed, sir,
	narrator	said I.
	mr. rankeillor	Dear doctor!
	narrator	cries he, rubbing his brow. "Dear doctor! No, Mr. David, I am afraid your scheme is inadmissible.
	narrator	I say nothing against your friend, Mr. Thomson: I know nothing against him; and if I did--mark this,
	narrator	Mr. David!--it would be my duty to lay hands on him. Now I put it to you: is it wise to meet?
	narrator	He may have matters to his charge. He may not have told you all. His name may not be even Thomson!"
	narrator	cries the lawyer, twinkling; "for some of these fellows will pick up names by the roadside as another would gather haws."
	david balfour	You must be the judge, sir,
	narrator	said I. But it was clear my plan had taken hold upon his fancy, for he kept musing to himself till we were called to dinner and the company of Mrs. Rankeillor; and that lady had scarce left us again to ourselves and a bottle of wine,
	narrator	ere he was back harping on my proposal. When and where was I to meet my friend Mr. Thomson; was I sure of Mr. T.'s discretion; supposing we could catch the old fox tripping,
	narrator	would I consent to such and such a term of an agreement--these and the like questions he kept asking at long intervals,
	narrator	while he thoughtfully rolled his wine upon his tongue. When I had answered all of them,
	narrator	seemingly to his contentment, he fell into a still deeper muse, even the claret being now forgotten.
	narrator	Then he got a sheet of paper and a pencil, and set to work writing and weighing every word; and at last touched a bell and had his clerk into the chamber.
	mr. rankeillor	Torrance,
	narrator	said he, "I must have this written out fair against to-night; and when it is done,
	narrator	you will be so kind as put on your hat and be ready to come along with this gentleman and me,
	narrator	for you will probably be wanted as a witness."
	david balfour	What, sir,
	narrator	cried I, as soon as the clerk was gone, "are you to venture it?"
	mr. rankeillor	Why, so it would appear,
	narrator	says he, filling his glass. "But let us speak no more of business. The very sight of Torrance brings in my head a little droll matter of some years ago,
	narrator	when I had made a tryst with the poor oaf at the cross of Edinburgh. Each had gone his proper errand; and when it came four o'clock,
	narrator	Torrance had been taking a glass and did not know his master, and I, who had forgot my spectacles,
	narrator	was so blind without them, that I give you my word I did not know my own clerk."
	narrator	And thereupon he laughed heartily.
	david balfour	I said it was an odd chance, and smiled out of politeness; but what held me all the afternoon in wonder,
	david balfour	he kept returning and dwelling on this story, and telling it again with fresh details and laughter; so that I began at last to be quite put out of countenance and feel ashamed for my friend's folly.
	narrator	Towards the time I had appointed with Alan, we set out from the house, Mr. Rankeillor and I arm in arm,
	narrator	and Torrance following behind with the deed in his pocket and a covered basket in his hand.
	narrator	All through the town, the lawyer was bowing right and left, and continually being button-holed by gentlemen on matters of burgh or private business; and I could see he was one greatly looked up to in the county.
	narrator	At last we were clear of the houses, and began to go along the side of the haven and towards the Hawes Inn and the Ferry pier,
	narrator	the scene of my misfortune. I could not look upon the place without emotion, recalling how many that had been there with me that day were now no more: Ransome taken,
	narrator	I could hope, from the evil to come; Shuan passed where I dared not follow him; and the poor souls that had gone down with the brig in her last plunge.
	narrator	All these, and the brig herself, I had outlived; and come through these hardships and fearful perils without scath.
	narrator	My only thought should have been of gratitude; and yet I could not behold the place without sorrow for others and a chill of recollected fear.
	narrator	I was so thinking when, upon a sudden, Mr. Rankeillor cried out, clapped his hand to his pockets,
	narrator	and began to laugh.
	mr. rankeillor	Why,
	narrator	he cries, "if this be not a farcical adventure! After all that I said, I have forgot my glasses!"
	narrator	At that, of course, I understood the purpose of his anecdote, and knew that if he had left his spectacles at home,
	narrator	it had been done on purpose, so that he might have the benefit of Alan's help without the awkwardness of recognising him.
	narrator	And indeed it was well thought upon; for now (suppose things to go the very worst) how could Rankeillor swear to my friend's identity,
	narrator	or how be made to bear damaging evidence against myself? For all that, he had been a long while of finding out his want,
	narrator	and had spoken to and recognised a good few persons as we came through the town; and I had little doubt myself that he saw reasonably well.
	narrator	As soon as we were past the Hawes (where I recognised the landlord smoking his pipe in the door,
	narrator	and was amazed to see him look no older) Mr. Rankeillor changed the order of march,
	narrator	walking behind with Torrance and sending me forward in the manner of a scout. I went up the hill,
	narrator	whistling from time to time my Gaelic air; and at length I had the pleasure to hear it answered and to see Alan rise from behind a bush.
	narrator	He was somewhat dashed in spirits, having passed a long day alone skulking in the county,
	narrator	and made but a poor meal in an alehouse near Dundas. But at the mere sight of my clothes,
	narrator	he began to brighten up; and as soon as I had told him in what a forward state our matters were and the part I looked to him to play in what remained,
	narrator	he sprang into a new man.
	alan breck	And that is a very good notion of yours
	narrator	says he
	alan breck	and I dare to say that you could lay your hands upon no better man to put it through than Alan Breck It is not a thing (mark ye) that any one could do,
	alan breck	but takes a gentleman of penetration But it sticks in my head your lawyer-man will be somewhat wearying to see me
	narrator	says Alan Accordingly I cried and waved on Mr. Rankeillor, who came up alone and was presented to my friend,
	narrator	Mr. Thomson
	mr. thomson	Mr. Thomson, I am pleased to meet you But I have forgotten my glasses; and our friend,
	mr. thomson	Mr. David here (clapping me on the shoulder) will tell you that I am little better than blind,
	mr. thomson	and that you must not be surprised if I pass you by to-morrow
	alan breck	Why, sir I would say it mattered the less as we are met here for a particular end,
	alan breck	to see justice done to Mr. Balfour and by what I can see, not very likely to have much else in common But I accept your apology,
	alan breck	which was a very proper one to make
	mr. rankeillor	And that is more than I could look for, Mr. Thomson And now as you and I are the chief actors in this enterprise,
	mr. rankeillor	I think we should come into a nice agreement; to which end, I propose that you should lend me your arm,
	mr. rankeillor	for (what with the dusk and the want of my glasses) I am not very clear as to the path; and as for you,
	mr. rankeillor	Mr. David, you will find Torrance a pleasant kind of body to speak with Only let me remind you,
	mr. rankeillor	it's quite needless he should hear more of your adventures or those of--ahem--Mr. Thomson
	narrator	Accordingly these two went on ahead in very close talk, and Torrance and I brought up the rear Night was quite come when we came in view of the house of Shaws Ten had been gone some time; it was dark and mild,
	narrator	with a pleasant, rustling wind in the south-west that covered the sound of our approach; and as we drew near we saw no glimmer of light in any portion of the building It seemed my uncle was already in bed,
	narrator	which was indeed the best thing for our arrangements We made our last whispered consultations some fifty yards away; and then the lawyer and Torrance and I crept quietly up and crouched down beside the corner of the house; and as soon as we were in our places,
	narrator	Alan strode to the door without concealment and began to knock
