	narrator	There is a regular ferry from Torosay to Kinlochaline on the mainland. Both shores of the Sound are in the country of the strong clan of the Macleans,
	narrator	and the people that passed the ferry with me were almost all of that clan. The skipper of the boat,
	narrator	on the other hand, was called Neil Roy Macrob; and since Macrob was one of the names of Alan's clansmen,
	narrator	and Alan himself had sent me to that ferry, I was eager to come to private speech of Neil Roy.
	narrator	In the crowded boat this was of course impossible, and the passage was a very slow affair.
	narrator	There was no wind, and as the boat was wretchedly equipped, we could pull but two oars on one side,
	narrator	and one on the other. The men gave way, however, with a good will, the passengers taking spells to help them,
	narrator	and the whole company giving the time in Gaelic boat-songs. And what with the songs, and the sea-air,
	narrator	and the good-nature and spirit of all concerned, and the bright weather, the passage was a pretty thing to have seen.
	narrator	But there was one melancholy part. In the mouth of Loch Aline we found a great sea-going ship at anchor; and this I supposed at first to be one of the King's cruisers which were kept along that coast,
	narrator	both summer and winter, to prevent communication with the French. As we got a little nearer,
	narrator	it became plain she was a ship of merchandise; and what still more puzzled me, not only her decks,
	narrator	but the sea-beach also, were quite black with people, and skiffs were continually plying to and fro between them.
	narrator	Yet nearer, and there began to come to our ears a great sound of mourning, the people on board and those on the shore crying and lamenting one to another so as to pierce the heart.
	narrator	Then I understood this was an emigrant ship bound for the American colonies. We put the ferry-boat alongside,
	narrator	and the exiles leaned over the bulwarks, weeping and reaching out their hands to my fellow-passengers,
	narrator	among whom they counted some near friends. How long this might have gone on I do not know,
	narrator	for they seemed to have no sense of time: but at last the captain of the ship,
	narrator	who seemed near beside himself (and no great wonder) in the midst of this crying and confusion,
	narrator	came to the side and begged us to depart. Thereupon Neil sheered off; and the chief singer in our boat struck into a melancholy air,
	narrator	which was presently taken up both by the emigrants and their friends upon the beach, so that it sounded from all sides like a lament for the dying.
	narrator	I saw the tears run down the cheeks of the men and women in the boat,
	narrator	even as they bent at the oars; and the circumstances and the music of the song (which is one called "Lochaber no more") were highly affecting even to myself.
	narrator	At Kinlochaline I got Neil Roy upon one side on the beach, and said I made sure he was one of Appin's men.
	neil roy macrob	And what for no?
	mr. balfour	I am seeking somebody, and it comes in my mind that you will have news of him.
	mr. balfour	Alan Breck Stewart is his name. And very foolishly, instead of showing him the button, I sought to pass a shilling in his hand.
	neil roy macrob	I am very much affronted, and this is not the way that one shentleman should behave to another at all.
	neil roy macrob	The man you ask for is in France; but if he was in my sporran, and your belly full of shillings,
	neil roy macrob	I would not hurt a hair upon his body.
	narrator	I saw I had gone the wrong way to work, and without wasting time upon apologies,
	narrator	showed him the button lying in the hollow of my palm.
	neil roy macrob	Aweel, aweel, and I think ye might have begun with that end of the stick, whatever!
	neil roy macrob	But if ye are the lad with the silver button, all is well, and I have the word to see that ye come safe.
	neil roy macrob	But if ye will pardon me to speak plainly, there is a name that you should never take into your mouth,
	neil roy macrob	and that is the name of Alan Breck; and there is a thing that ye would never do,
	neil roy macrob	and that is to offer your dirty money to a Hieland shentleman.
	narrator	It was not very easy to apologise; for I could scarce tell him (what was the truth) that I had never dreamed he would set up to be a gentleman until he told me so.
	narrator	Neil on his part had no wish to prolong his dealings with me, only to fulfil his orders and be done with it; and he made haste to give me my route.
	narrator	This was to lie the night in Kinlochaline in the public inn; to cross Morven the next day to Ardgour,
	narrator	and lie the night in the house of one John of the Claymore, who was warned that I might come; the third day,
	narrator	to be set across one loch at Corran and another at Balachulish, and then ask my way to the house of James of the Glens,
	narrator	at Aucharn in Duror of Appin. There was a good deal of ferrying, as you hear; the sea in all this part running deep into the mountains and winding about their roots.
	narrator	It makes the country strong to hold and difficult to travel, but full of prodigious wild and dreadful prospects.
	narrator	I had some other advice from Neil: to speak with no one by the way, to avoid Whigs,
	narrator	Campbells, and the "red-soldiers;" to leave the road and lie in a bush if I saw any of the latter coming,
	narrator	"for it was never chancy to meet in with them;" and in brief, to conduct myself like a robber or a Jacobite agent,
	narrator	as perhaps Neil thought me. The inn at Kinlochaline was the most beggarly vile place that ever pigs were styed in,
	narrator	full of smoke, vermin, and silent Highlanders. I was not only discontented with my lodging, but with myself for my mismanagement of Neil,
	narrator	and thought I could hardly be worse off. But very wrongly, as I was soon to see; for I had not been half an hour at the inn (standing in the door most of the time,
	narrator	to ease my eyes from the peat smoke) when a thunderstorm came close by, the springs broke in a little hill on which the inn stood,
	narrator	and one end of the house became a running water. Places of public entertainment were bad enough all over Scotland in those days; yet it was a wonder to myself,
	narrator	when I had to go from the fireside to the bed in which I slept, wading over the shoes.
	narrator	Early in my next day's journey I overtook a little, stout, solemn man, walking very slowly with his toes turned out,
	narrator	sometimes reading in a book and sometimes marking the place with his finger, and dressed decently and plainly in something of a clerical style.
	narrator	This I found to be another catechist, but of a different order from the blind man of Mull: being indeed one of those sent out by the Edinburgh Society for Propagating Christian Knowledge,
	narrator	to evangelise the more savage places of the Highlands. His name was Henderland; he spoke with the broad south-country tongue,
	narrator	which I was beginning to weary for the sound of; and besides common countryship, we soon found we had a more particular bond of interest.
	narrator	For my good friend, the minister of Essendean, had translated into the Gaelic in his by-time a number of hymns and pious books which Henderland used in his work,
	narrator	and held in great esteem. Indeed, it was one of these he was carrying and reading when we met.
	narrator	We fell in company at once, our ways lying together as far as to Kingairloch. As we went,
	narrator	he stopped and spoke with all the wayfarers and workers that we met; and though of course I could not tell what they discoursed about,
	narrator	yet I judged Mr. Henderland must be well liked in the countryside, for I observed many of them to bring out their mulls and share a pinch of snuff with him.
	narrator	I told him as far in my affairs as I judged wise; as far, that is,
	narrator	as they were none of Alan's; and gave Balachulish as the place I was travelling to,
	narrator	to meet a friend; for I thought Aucharn, or even Duror, would be too particular, and might put him on the scent.
	narrator	On his part, he told me much of his work and the people he worked among,
	narrator	the hiding priests and Jacobites, the Disarming Act, the dress, and many other curiosities of the time and place.
	narrator	He seemed moderate; blaming Parliament in several points, and especially because they had framed the Act more severely against those who wore the dress than against those who carried weapons.
	narrator	This moderation put it in my mind to question him of the Red Fox and the Appin tenants; questions which,
	narrator	I thought, would seem natural enough in the mouth of one travelling to that country.
	henderland	It's a bad business. It's wonderful, where the tenants find the money, for their life is mere starvation.
	henderland	Ye don't carry such a thing as snuff, do ye, Mr. Balfour?
	narrator	No.
	henderland	Well, I'm better wanting it.
	narrator	But these tenants (as I was saying) are doubtless partly driven to it.
	henderland	James Stewart in Duror (that's him they call James of the Glens) is half-brother to Ardshiel,
	henderland	the captain of the clan; and he is a man much looked up to, and drives very hard.
	narrator	And then there's one they call Alan Breck-- Ah! I cried, what of him?
	henderland	What of the wind that bloweth where it listeth? He's here and awa; here to-day and gone to-morrow: a fair heather-cat.
	henderland	He might be glowering at the two of us out of yon whin-bush, and I wouldnae wonder!
	henderland	Ye'll no carry such a thing as snuff, will ye?
	narrator	I told him no, and that he had asked the same thing more than once.
	henderland	It's highly possible, said he, sighing. But it seems strange ye shouldnae carry it. However, as I was saying,
	henderland	this Alan Breck is a bold, desperate customer, and well kent to be James's right hand.
	henderland	His life is forfeit already; he would boggle at naething; and maybe, if a tenant-body was to hang back he would get a dirk in his wame.
	narrator	You make a poor story of it all, Mr. Henderland,
	henderland	Na, but there's love too, and self-denial that should put the like of you and me to shame.
	henderland	There's something fine about it; no perhaps Christian, but humanly fine. Even Alan Breck, by all that I hear,
	henderland	is a chield to be respected. There's many a lying sneck-draw sits close in kirk in our own part of the country,
	henderland	and stands well in the world's eye, and maybe is a far worse man, Mr. Balfour,
	henderland	than yon misguided shedder of man's blood. Ay, ay, we might take a lesson by them.--Ye'll perhaps think I've been too long in the Hielands?
	narrator	he added, smiling to me. I told him not at all; that I had seen much to admire among the Highlanders; and if he came to that,
	narrator	Mr. Campbell himself was a Highlander.
	henderland	Ay, that's true. It's a fine blood.
	narrator	And what is the King's agent about?
	henderland	Colin Campbell? Putting his head in a bees' byke!
	narrator	He is to turn the tenants out by force, I hear?
	henderland	Yes, but the business has gone back and forth, as folk say. First, James of the Glens rode to Edinburgh,
	henderland	and got some lawyer (a Stewart, nae doubt--they all hing together like bats in a steeple) and had the proceedings stayed.
	henderland	And then Colin Campbell cam' in again, and had the upper-hand before the Barons of Exchequer.
	henderland	And now they tell me the first of the tenants are to flit to-morrow. It's to begin at Duror under James's very windows,
	henderland	which dae nae seem wise by my humble way of it.
	narrator	Do you think they'll fight?
	henderland	Well, they're disarmed--or supposed to be--for there's still a good deal of cold iron lying by in quiet places.
	henderland	And then Colin Campbell has the sogers coming. But for all that, if I was his lady wife,
	henderland	I wouldnae be well pleased till I got him home again. They're queer customers, the Appin Stewarts.
	narrator	I asked if they were worse than their neighbours.
	henderland	No they, And that's the worst part of it. For if Colin Roy can get his business done in Appin,
	henderland	he has it all to begin again in the next country, which they call Mamore, and which is one of the countries of the Camerons.
	henderland	He's King's Factor upon both, and from both he has to drive out the tenants; and indeed,
	henderland	Mr. Balfour (to be open with ye), it's my belief that if he escapes the one lot,
	henderland	he'll get his death by the other.
	narrator	So we continued talking and walking the great part of the day; until at last, Mr. Henderland after expressing his delight in my company,
	narrator	and satisfaction at meeting with a friend of Mr. Campbell's
	mr. henderland	whom, I will make bold to call that sweet singer of our covenanted Zion
	narrator	proposed that I should make a short stage, and lie the night in his house a little beyond Kingairloch.
	narrator	To say truth, I was overjoyed; for I had no great desire for John of the Claymore,
	narrator	and since my double misadventure, first with the guide and next with the gentleman skipper, I stood in some fear of any Highland stranger.
	narrator	Accordingly we shook hands upon the bargain, and came in the afternoon to a small house,
	narrator	standing alone by the shore of the Linnhe Loch. The sun was already gone from the desert mountains of Ardgour upon the hither side,
	narrator	but shone on those of Appin on the farther; the loch lay as still as a lake,
	narrator	only the gulls were crying round the sides of it; and the whole place seemed solemn and uncouth.
	narrator	We had no sooner come to the door of Mr. Henderland's dwelling, than to my great surprise (for I was now used to the politeness of Highlanders) he burst rudely past me,
	narrator	dashed into the room, caught up a jar and a small horn-spoon, and began ladling snuff into his nose in most excessive quantities.
	narrator	Then he had a hearty fit of sneezing, and looked round upon me with a rather silly smile.
	mr. henderland	It's a vow I took. I took a vow upon me that I wouldnae carry it.
	mr. henderland	Doubtless it's a great privation; but when I think upon the martyrs, not only to the Scottish Covenant but to other points of Christianity,
	mr. henderland	I think shame to mind it.
	narrator	As soon as we had eaten (and porridge and whey was the best of the good man's diet) he took a grave face and said he had a duty to perform by Mr. Campbell,
	narrator	and that was to inquire into my state of mind towards God. I was inclined to smile at him since the business of the snuff; but he had not spoken long before he brought the tears into my eyes.
	narrator	There are two things that men should never weary of, goodness and humility; we get none too much of them in this rough world among cold,
	narrator	proud people; but Mr. Henderland had their very speech upon his tongue. And though I was a good deal puffed up with my adventures and with having come off,
	narrator	as the saying is, with flying colours; yet he soon had me on my knees beside a simple,
	narrator	poor old man, and both proud and glad to be there. Before we went to bed he offered me sixpence to help me on my way,
	narrator	out of a scanty store he kept in the turf wall of his house; at which excess of goodness I knew not what to do.
	narrator	But at last he was so earnest with me that I thought it the more mannerly part to let him have his way,
	narrator	and so left him poorer than myself.
