	narrator	We came at last to the foot of an exceeding steep wood, which scrambled up a craggy hillside,
	narrator	and was crowned by a naked precipice. It's here,
	one of the guides	said one of the guides, and we struck up hill.
	narrator	The trees clung upon the slope, like sailors on the shrouds of a ship, and their trunks were like the rounds of a ladder,
	narrator	by which we mounted. Quite at the top, and just before the rocky face of the cliff sprang above the foliage,
	narrator	we found that strange house which was known in the country as "Cluny's Cage." The trunks of several trees had been wattled across,
	narrator	the intervals strengthened with stakes, and the ground behind this barricade levelled up with earth to make the floor.
	narrator	A tree, which grew out from the hillside, was the living centre-beam of the roof. The walls were of wattle and covered with moss.
	narrator	The whole house had something of an egg shape; and it half hung, half stood in that steep,
	narrator	hillside thicket, like a wasp's nest in a green hawthorn. Within, it was large enough to shelter five or six persons with some comfort.
	narrator	A projection of the cliff had been cunningly employed to be the fireplace; and the smoke rising against the face of the rock,
	narrator	and being not dissimilar in colour, readily escaped notice from below. This was but one of Cluny's hiding-places; he had caves,
	narrator	besides, and underground chambers in several parts of his country; and following the reports of his scouts,
	narrator	he moved from one to another as the soldiers drew near or moved away. By this manner of living,
	narrator	and thanks to the affection of his clan, he had not only stayed all this time in safety,
	narrator	while so many others had fled or been taken and slain: but stayed four or five years longer,
	narrator	and only went to France at last by the express command of his master. There he soon died; and it is strange to reflect that he may have regretted his Cage upon Ben Alder.
	narrator	When we came to the door he was seated by his rock chimney, watching a gillie about some cookery.
	narrator	He was mighty plainly habited, with a knitted nightcap drawn over his ears, and smoked a foul cutty pipe.
	narrator	For all that he had the manners of a king, and it was quite a sight to see him rise out of his place to welcome us.
	cluny	Well, Mr. Stewart, come awa', sir! and bring in your friend that as yet I dinna ken the name of.
	alan breck	And how is yourself, Cluny? I hope ye do brawly, sir. And I am proud to see ye,
	alan breck	and to present to ye my friend the Laird of Shaws, Mr. David Balfour.
	narrator	Alan never referred to my estate without a touch of a sneer, when we were alone; but with strangers,
	narrator	he rang the words out like a herald.
	cluny	Step in by, the both of ye, gentlemen, I make ye welcome to my house, which is a queer,
	cluny	rude place for certain, but one where I have entertained a royal personage, Mr. Stewart--ye doubtless ken the personage I have in my eye.
	cluny	We'll take a dram for luck, and as soon as this handless man of mine has the collops ready,
	cluny	we'll dine and take a hand at the cartes as gentlemen should. My life is a bit driegh,
	cluny	I see little company, and sit and twirl my thumbs, and mind upon a great day that is gone by,
	cluny	and weary for another great day that we all hope will be upon the road. And so here's a toast to ye: The Restoration!
	narrator	Thereupon we all touched glasses and drank. I am sure I wished no ill to King George; and if he had been there himself in proper person,
	narrator	it's like he would have done as I did. No sooner had I taken out the drain than I felt hugely better,
	narrator	and could look on and listen, still a little mistily perhaps, but no longer with the same groundless horror and distress of mind.
	narrator	It was certainly a strange place, and we had a strange host. In his long hiding,
	narrator	Cluny had grown to have all manner of precise habits, like those of an old maid.
	narrator	He had a particular place, where no one else must sit; the Cage was arranged in a particular way,
	narrator	which none must disturb; cookery was one of his chief fancies, and even while he was greeting us in,
	narrator	he kept an eye to the collops. It appears, he sometimes visited or received visits from his wife and one or two of his nearest friends,
	narrator	under the cover of night; but for the more part lived quite alone, and communicated only with his sentinels and the gillies that waited on him in the Cage.
	narrator	The first thing in the morning, one of them, who was a barber, came and shaved him,
	narrator	and gave him the news of the country, of which he was immoderately greedy. There was no end to his questions; he put them as earnestly as a child; and at some of the answers,
	narrator	laughed out of all bounds of reason, and would break out again laughing at the mere memory,
	narrator	hours after the barber was gone. To be sure, there might have been a purpose in his questions; for though he was thus sequestered,
	narrator	and like the other landed gentlemen of Scotland, stripped by the late Act of Parliament of legal powers,
	narrator	he still exercised a patriarchal justice in his clan. Disputes were brought to him in his hiding-hole to be decided; and the men of his country,
	narrator	who would have snapped their fingers at the Court of Session, laid aside revenge and paid down money at the bare word of this forfeited and hunted outlaw.
	narrator	When he was angered, which was often enough, he gave his commands and breathed threats of punishment like any king; and his gillies trembled and crouched away from him like children before a hasty father.
	narrator	With each of them, as he entered, he ceremoniously shook hands, both parties touching their bonnets at the same time in a military manner.
	narrator	Altogether, I had a fair chance to see some of the inner workings of a Highland clan; and this with a proscribed,
	narrator	fugitive chief; his country conquered; the troops riding upon all sides in quest of him, sometimes within a mile of where he lay; and when the least of the ragged fellows whom he rated and threatened,
	narrator	could have made a fortune by betraying him. On that first day, as soon as the collops were ready,
	narrator	Cluny gave them with his own hand a squeeze of a lemon (for he was well supplied with luxuries) and bade us draw in to our meal.
	cluny	They,
	narrator	said he, meaning the collops, "are such as I gave his Royal Highness in this very house; bating the lemon juice,
	narrator	for at that time we were glad to get the meat and never fashed for kitchen."
	cluny	Indeed, there were mair dragoons than lemons in my country in the year forty-six.
	narrator	I do not know if the collops were truly very good, but my heart rose against the sight of them,
	narrator	and I could eat but little. All the while Cluny entertained us with stories of Prince Charlie's stay in the Cage,
	narrator	giving us the very words of the speakers, and rising from his place to show us where they stood.
	narrator	By these, I gathered the Prince was a gracious, spirited boy, like the son of a race of polite kings,
	narrator	but not so wise as Solomon. I gathered, too, that while he was in the Cage,
	narrator	he was often drunk; so the fault that has since, by all accounts, made such a wreck of him,
	narrator	had even then begun to show itself. We were no sooner done eating than Cluny brought out an old,
	narrator	thumbed, greasy pack of cards, such as you may find in a mean inn; and his eyes brightened in his face as he proposed that we should fall to playing.
	narrator	Now this was one of the things I had been brought up to eschew like disgrace; it being held by my father neither the part of a Christian nor yet of a gentleman to set his own livelihood and fish for that of others,
	narrator	on the cast of painted pasteboard. To be sure, I might have pleaded my fatigue, which was excuse enough; but I thought it behoved that I should bear a testimony.
	narrator	I must have got very red in the face, but I spoke steadily, and told them I had no call to be a judge of others,
	narrator	but for my own part, it was a matter in which I had no clearness.
	cluny	What in deil's name is this? What kind of Whiggish, canting talk is this, for the house of Cluny Macpherson?
	alan breck	I will put my hand in the fire for Mr. Balfour. He is an honest and a mettle gentleman,
	alan breck	and I would have ye bear in mind who says it. I bear a king's name,
	narrator	says he, cocking his hat; "and I and any that I call friend are company for the best.
	narrator	But the gentleman is tired, and should sleep; if he has no mind to the cartes,
	narrator	it will never hinder you and me. And I'm fit and willing, sir, to play ye any game that ye can name."
	cluny	Sir, in this poor house of mine I would have you to ken that any gentleman may follow his pleasure.
	cluny	If your friend would like to stand on his head, he is welcome. And if either he,
	cluny	or you, or any other man, is not preceesly satisfied, I will be proud to step outside with him.
	narrator	I had no will that these two friends should cut their throats for my sake.
	david balfour	Sir, I am very wearied, as Alan says; and what's more, as you are a man that likely has sons of your own,
	david balfour	I may tell you it was a promise to my father.
	cluny	Say nae mair, say nae mair, said Cluny, and pointed me to a bed of heather in a corner of the Cage.
	cluny	For all that he was displeased enough, looked at me askance, and grumbled when he looked.
	cluny	And indeed it must be owned that both my scruples and the words in which I declared them,
	cluny	smacked somewhat of the Covenanter, and were little in their place among wild Highland Jacobites.
	narrator	What with the brandy and the venison, a strange heaviness had come over me; and I had scarce lain down upon the bed before I fell into a kind of trance,
	narrator	in which I continued almost the whole time of our stay in the Cage. Sometimes I was broad awake and understood what passed; sometimes I only heard voices,
	narrator	or men snoring, like the voice of a silly river; and the plaids upon the wall dwindled down and swelled out again,
	narrator	like firelight shadows on the roof. I must sometimes have spoken or cried out, for I remember I was now and then amazed at being answered; yet I was conscious of no particular nightmare,
	narrator	only of a general, black, abiding horror--a horror of the place I was in, and the bed I lay in,
	narrator	and the plaids on the wall, and the voices, and the fire, and myself. The barber-gillie,
	narrator	who was a doctor too, was called in to prescribe for me; but as he spoke in the Gaelic,
	narrator	I understood not a word of his opinion, and was too sick even to ask for a translation.
	narrator	I knew well enough I was ill, and that was all I cared about. I paid little heed while I lay in this poor pass.
	narrator	But Alan and Cluny were most of the time at the cards, and I am clear that Alan must have begun by winning; for I remember sitting up,
	narrator	and seeing them hard at it, and a great glittering pile of as much as sixty or a hundred guineas on the table.
	narrator	It looked strange enough, to see all this wealth in a nest upon a cliff-side, wattled about growing trees.
	narrator	And even then, I thought it seemed deep water for Alan to be riding, who had no better battle-horse than a green purse and a matter of five pounds.
	narrator	The luck, it seems, changed on the second day. About noon I was wakened as usual for dinner,
	narrator	and as usual refused to eat, and was given a dram with some bitter infusion which the barber had prescribed.
	narrator	The sun was shining in at the open door of the Cage, and this dazzled and offended me.
	narrator	Cluny sat at the table, biting the pack of cards. Alan had stooped over the bed,
	narrator	and had his face close to my eyes; to which, troubled as they were with the fever,
	narrator	it seemed of the most shocking bigness.
	alan breck	He asked me for a loan of my money.
	david balfour	What for?
	alan breck	O, just for a loan, said he.
	david balfour	But why?
	alan breck	I repeated. "Hut, David! said Alan, "ye wouldnae grudge me a loan?
	david balfour	I would, though, if I had had my senses! But all I thought of then was to get his face away,
	david balfour	and I handed him my money.
	narrator	On the morning of the third day, when we had been forty-eight hours in the Cage,
	narrator	I awoke with a great relief of spirits, very weak and weary indeed, but seeing things of the right size and with their honest,
	narrator	everyday appearance. I had a mind to eat, moreover, rose from bed of my own movement,
	narrator	and as soon as we had breakfasted, stepped to the entry of the Cage and sat down outside in the top of the wood.
	narrator	It was a grey day with a cool, mild air: and I sat in a dream all morning,
	narrator	only disturbed by the passing by of Cluny's scouts and servants coming with provisions and reports; for as the coast was at that time clear,
	narrator	you might almost say he held court openly. When I returned, he and Alan had laid the cards aside,
	narrator	and were questioning a gillie; and the chief turned about and spoke to me in the Gaelic.
	david balfour	I have no Gaelic, sir.
	narrator	Now since the card question, everything I said or did had the power of annoying Cluny.
	cluny	Your name has more sense than yourself, then, for it's good Gaelic. But the point is this.
	cluny	My scout reports all clear in the south, and the question is, have ye the strength to go?
	narrator	I saw cards on the table, but no gold; only a heap of little written papers,
	narrator	and these all on Cluny's side. Alan, besides, had an odd look, like a man not very well content; and I began to have a strong misgiving.
	david balfour	I do not know if I am as well as I should be, but the little money we have has a long way to carry us.
	alan breck	David, I've lost it; there's the naked truth.
	david balfour	My money too?
	alan breck	Your money too, says Alan, with a groan. Ye shouldnae have given it me. I'm daft when I get to the cartes.
	cluny	Hoot-toot! hoot-toot! It was all daffing; it's all nonsense. Of course you'll have your money back again,
	cluny	and the double of it, if ye'll make so free with me. It would be a singular thing for me to keep it.
	cluny	It's not to be supposed that I would be any hindrance to gentlemen in your situation; that would be a singular thing!
	cluny	cries he, and began to pull gold out of his pocket with a mighty red face.
	alan breck	Alan said nothing, only looked on the ground.
	david balfour	Will you step to the door with me, sir?
	cluny	Cluny said he would be very glad, and followed me readily enough, but he looked flustered and put out.
	david balfour	And now, sir, I must first acknowledge your generosity.
	cluny	Nonsensical nonsense! Where's the generosity? This is just a most unfortunate affair; but what would ye have me do--boxed up in this bee-skep of a cage of mine--but just set my friends to the cartes,
	cluny	when I can get them? And if they lose, of course, it's not to be supposed----
	david balfour	Yes, if they lose, you give them back their money; and if they win, they carry away yours in their pouches!
	david balfour	I have said before that I grant your generosity; but to me, sir, it's a very painful thing to be placed in this position.
	narrator	There was a little silence, in which Cluny seemed always as if he was about to speak,
	narrator	but said nothing. All the time he grew redder and redder in the face.
	david balfour	I am a young man, and I ask your advice. Advise me as you would your son.
	david balfour	My friend fairly lost his money, after having fairly gained a far greater sum of yours; can I accept it back again?
	david balfour	Would that be the right part for me to play? Whatever I do, you can see for yourself it must be hard upon a man of any pride.
	cluny	It's rather hard on me, too, Mr. Balfour, and ye give me very much the look of a man that has entrapped poor people to their hurt.
	cluny	I wouldnae have my friends come to any house of mine to accept affronts; no, he cried,
	cluny	with a sudden heat of anger, nor yet to give them!
	david balfour	And so you see, sir, there is something to be said upon my side; and this gambling is a very poor employ for gentlefolks.
	david balfour	But I am still waiting your opinion.
	narrator	I am sure if ever Cluny hated any man it was David Balfour. He looked me all over with a warlike eye,
	narrator	and I saw the challenge at his lips. But either my youth disarmed him, or perhaps his own sense of justice.
	narrator	Certainly it was a mortifying matter for all concerned, and not least Cluny; the more credit that he took it as he did.
	cluny	Mr. Balfour, I think you are too nice and covenanting, but for all that you have the spirit of a very pretty gentleman.
	cluny	Upon my honest word, ye may take this money--it's what I would tell my son--and here's my hand along with it!
