	narrator	Presently there came a great rattling of chains and bolts, and the door was cautiously opened and shut to again behind me as soon as I had passed.
	uncle ebenezer	Go into the kitchen and touch naething
	narrator	and while the person of the house set himself to replacing the defences of the door,
	narrator	I groped my way forward and entered the kitchen. The fire had burned up fairly bright,
	narrator	and showed me the barest room I think I ever put my eyes on. Half-a-dozen dishes stood upon the shelves; the table was laid for supper with a bowl of porridge,
	narrator	a horn spoon, and a cup of small beer. Besides what I have named, there was not another thing in that great,
	narrator	stone-vaulted, empty chamber but lockfast chests arranged along the wall and a corner cupboard with a padlock.
	narrator	As soon as the last chain was up, the man rejoined me. He was a mean,
	narrator	stooping, narrow-shouldered, clay-faced creature; and his age might have been anything between fifty and seventy. His nightcap was of flannel,
	narrator	and so was the nightgown that he wore, instead of coat and waistcoat, over his ragged shirt.
	narrator	He was long unshaved; but what most distressed and even daunted me, he would neither take his eyes away from me nor look me fairly in the face.
	narrator	What he was, whether by trade or birth, was more than I could fathom; but he seemed most like an old,
	narrator	unprofitable serving-man, who should have been left in charge of that big house upon board wages.
	uncle ebenezer	Are ye sharp-set? Ye can eat that drop parritch?
	davie	I said I feared it was his own supper.
	uncle ebenezer	O, I can do fine wanting it. I’ll take the ale, though, for it slockens my cough.
	uncle ebenezer	He drank the cup about half out, still keeping an eye upon me as he drank; and then suddenly held out his hand.
	uncle ebenezer	Let’s see the letter.
	davie	I told him the letter was for Mr. Balfour; not for him.
	uncle ebenezer	And who do ye think I am? Give me Alexander’s letter.
	davie	You know my father’s name?
	uncle ebenezer	It would be strange if I didnae, for he was my born brother; and little as ye seem to like either me or my house,
	uncle ebenezer	or my good parritch, I’m your born uncle, Davie, my man, and you my born nephew.
	uncle ebenezer	So give us the letter, and sit down and fill your kyte.
	narrator	If I had been some years younger, what with shame, weariness, and disappointment, I believe I had burst into tears.
	narrator	As it was, I could find no words, neither black nor white, but handed him the letter,
	narrator	and sat down to the porridge with as little appetite for meat as ever a young man had.
	narrator	Meanwhile, my uncle, stooping over the fire, turned the letter over and over in his hands.
	uncle ebenezer	Do ye ken what’s in it?
	davie	You see for yourself, sir, that the seal has not been broken.
	uncle ebenezer	Ay, but what brought you here?
	davie	To give the letter.
	uncle ebenezer	No, but ye’ll have had some hopes, nae doubt?
	davie	I confess, sir, when I was told that I had kinsfolk well-to-do, I did indeed indulge the hope that they might help me in my life.
	davie	But I am no beggar; I look for no favours at your hands, and I want none that are not freely given.
	davie	For as poor as I appear, I have friends of my own that will be blithe to help me.
	uncle ebenezer	Hoot-toot! dinnae fly up in the snuff at me. We'll agree fine yet. And, Davie, my man,
	uncle ebenezer	if you're done with that bit parritch, I could just take a sup of it myself.
	uncle ebenezer	Ay, they're fine, halesome food--they're grand food, parritch. He murmured a little grace to himself and fell to.
	uncle ebenezer	Your father was very fond of his meat, I mind; he was a hearty, if not a great eater; but as for me,
	uncle ebenezer	I could never do mair than pyke at food. He took a pull at the small beer,
	uncle ebenezer	which probably reminded him of hospitable duties, for his next speech ran thus: If ye're dry ye'll find water behind the door.
	narrator	To this I returned no answer, standing stiffly on my two feet, and looking down upon my uncle with a mighty angry heart.
	narrator	He, on his part, continued to eat like a man under some pressure of time, and to throw out little darting glances now at my shoes and now at my home-spun stockings.
	narrator	Once only, when he had ventured to look a little higher, our eyes met; and no thief taken with a hand in a man's pocket could have shown more lively signals of distress.
	narrator	This set me in a muse, whether his timidity arose from too long a disuse of any human company; and whether perhaps,
	narrator	upon a little trial, it might pass off, and my uncle change into an altogether different man.
	narrator	From this I was awakened by his sharp voice.
	uncle ebenezer	Your father's been long dead?
	davie	Three weeks, sir.
	uncle ebenezer	He was a secret man, Alexander--a secret, silent man. He never said muckle when he was young.
	uncle ebenezer	He'll never have spoken muckle of me?
	davie	I never knew, sir, till you told it me yourself, that he had any brother.
	uncle ebenezer	Dear me, dear me! Nor yet of Shaws, I dare say?
	davie	Not so much as the name, sir.
	narrator	To think o' that!
	uncle ebenezer	A strange nature of a man!
	narrator	For all that, he seemed singularly satisfied, but whether with himself, or me, or with this conduct of my father's,
	narrator	was more than I could read. Certainly, however, he seemed to be outgrowing that distaste, or ill-will,
	narrator	that he had conceived at first against my person;
	uncle ebenezer	We'll agree fine yet! I'm just as glad I let you in. And now come awa'
	uncle ebenezer	to your bed.
	narrator	To my surprise, he lit no lamp or candle, but set forth into the dark passage,
	narrator	groped his way, breathing deeply, up a flight of steps, and paused before a door, which he unlocked.
	narrator	I was close upon his heels, having stumbled after him as best I might; and then he bade me go in,
	narrator	for that was my chamber.
	uncle ebenezer	Go in, for that was my chamber.
	narrator	I did as he bid, but paused after a few steps, and begged a light to go to bed with.
	davie	begged a light to go to bed with
	uncle ebenezer	Hoot-toot!
	narrator	there's a fine moon. Neither moon nor star, sir, and pit-mirk. I cannae see the bed.
	uncle ebenezer	Hoot-toot, hoot-toot! Lights in a house is a thing I dinnae agree with. I'm unco feared of fires.
	uncle ebenezer	Good-night to ye, Davie, my man.
	narrator	And before I had time to add a further protest, he pulled the door to, and I heard him lock me in from the outside.
	narrator	I did not know whether to laugh or cry. The room was as cold as a well,
	narrator	and the bed, when I had found my way to it, as damp as a peat-hag; but by good fortune I had caught up my bundle and my plaid,
	narrator	and rolling myself in the latter, I lay down upon the floor under lee of the big bedstead,
	narrator	and fell speedily asleep. With the first peep of day I opened my eyes, to find myself in a great chamber,
	narrator	hung with stamped leather, furnished with fine embroidered furniture, and lit by three fair windows. Ten years ago,
	narrator	or perhaps twenty, it must have been as pleasant a room to lie down or to awake in as a man could wish; but damp,
	narrator	dirt, disuse, and the mice and spiders had done their worst since then. Many of the window-panes,
	narrator	besides, were broken; and indeed this was so common a feature in that house, that I believe my uncle must at some time have stood a siege from his indignant neighbours--perhaps with Jennet Clouston at their head.
	narrator	Meanwhile the sun was shining outside; and being very cold in that miserable room, I knocked and shouted till my gaoler came and let me out.
	narrator	He carried me to the back of the house, where was a draw-well, and told me to "wash my face there,
	narrator	if I wanted;" and when that was done, I made the best of my own way back to the kitchen,
	narrator	where he had lit the fire and was making the porridge. The table was laid with two bowls and two horn spoons,
	narrator	but the same single measure of small beer. Perhaps my eye rested on this particular with some surprise,
	narrator	and perhaps my uncle observed it; for he spoke up as if in answer to my thought,
	narrator	asking me if I would like to drink ale--for so he called it. I told him such was my habit,
	narrator	but not to put himself about.
	uncle ebenezer	Na, na, I'll deny you nothing in reason. He fetched another cup from the shelf; and then,
	uncle ebenezer	to my great surprise, instead of drawing more beer, he poured an accurate half from one cup to the other.
	uncle ebenezer	There was a kind of nobleness in this that took my breath away; if my uncle was certainly a miser,
	uncle ebenezer	he was one of that thorough breed that goes near to make the vice respectable.
	narrator	When we had made an end of our meal, my uncle Ebenezer unlocked a drawer, and drew out of it a clay pipe and a lump of tobacco,
	narrator	from which he cut one fill before he locked it up again. Then he sat down in the sun at one of the windows and silently smoked.
	narrator	From time to time his eyes came coasting round to me, and he shot out one of his questions.
	narrator	Once it was, "And your mother?" and when I had told him that she, too, was dead,
	narrator	"Ay, she was a bonnie lassie!" Then, after another long pause, "Whae were these friends o'
	narrator	yours?" I told him they were different gentlemen of the name of Campbell; though, indeed, there was only one,
	narrator	and that the minister, that had ever taken the least note of me; but I began to think my uncle made too light of my position,
	narrator	and finding myself all alone with him, I did not wish him to suppose me helpless.
	uncle ebenezer	He seemed to turn this over in his mind; and then, "Davie, my man," said he,
	uncle ebenezer	"ye've come to the right bit when ye came to your uncle Ebenezer. I've a great notion of the family,
	uncle ebenezer	and I mean to do the right by you; but while I'm taking a bit think to mysel'
	uncle ebenezer	of what's the best thing to put you to--whether the law, or the meenistry, or maybe the army,
	uncle ebenezer	whilk is what boys are fondest of--I wouldnae like the Balfours to be humbled before a wheen Hieland Campbells,
	uncle ebenezer	and I'll ask you to keep your tongue within your teeth. Nae letters; nae messages; no kind of word to any body; or else--there's my door.
	narrator	"Uncle Ebenezer," said I, "I've no manner of reason to suppose you mean anything but well by me.
	narrator	For all that, I would have you to know that I have a pride of my own.
	narrator	It was by no will of mine that I came seeking you; and if you show me your door again,
	narrator	I'll take you at the word."
	uncle ebenezer	He seemed grievously put out. "Hoots-toots," said he, "ca' cannie, man--ca' cannie! Bide a day or two.
	uncle ebenezer	I'm nae warlock, to find a fortune for you in the bottom of a parritch bowl; but just you give me a day or two,
	uncle ebenezer	and say naething to naebody, and as sure as sure, I'll do the right by you.
	narrator	"Very well," said I, "enough said. If you want to help me, there's no doubt but I'll be glad of it,
	narrator	and none but I'll be grateful." It seemed to me (too soon, I dare say) that I was getting the upper hand of my uncle; and I began next to say that I must have the bed and bedclothes aired and put to sun-dry; for nothing would make me sleep
	narrator	in such a pickle.
	uncle ebenezer	Is this my house or yours? Na, na, I didnae mean that. What's mine is yours,
	uncle ebenezer	Davie, my man, and what's yours is mine. Blood's thicker than water; and there's naebody but you and me that ought the name.
	uncle ebenezer	And then on he rambled about the family, and its ancient greatness, and his father that began to enlarge the house,
	uncle ebenezer	and himself that stopped the building as a sinful waste; and this put it in my head to give him Jennet Clouston's message.
	uncle ebenezer	The limmer! Twelve hunner and fifteen--that's every day since I had the limmer rowpit! Dod, David,
	uncle ebenezer	I'll have her roasted on red peats before I'm by with it! A witch--a proclaimed witch!
	uncle ebenezer	I'll aff and see the session clerk.
	narrator	And with that he opened a chest, and got out a very old and well-preserved blue coat and waistcoat,
	narrator	and a good enough beaver hat, both without lace. These he threw on any way, and taking a staff from the cupboard,
	narrator	locked all up again, and was for setting out, when a thought arrested him. I cannae leave you by yoursel’
	narrator	in the house,
	uncle ebenezer	I’ll have to lock you out.
	narrator	The blood came to my face. If you lock me out, it’ll be the last you’ll see of me in friendship.
	uncle ebenezer	He turned very pale, and sucked his mouth in. This is no the way, this is no the way to win my favour,
	uncle ebenezer	David.
	narrator	Sir, with a proper reverence for your age and our common blood, I do not value your favour at a boddle’s purchase.
	narrator	I was brought up to have a good conceit of myself; and if you were all the uncle,
	narrator	and all the family, I had in the world ten times over, I wouldn’t buy your liking at such prices.
	uncle ebenezer	Uncle Ebenezer went and looked out of the window for awhile.
	narrator	I could see him all trembling and twitching, like a man with palsy.
	uncle ebenezer	But when he turned round, he had a smile upon his face. Well, well, we must bear and forbear.
	uncle ebenezer	I’ll no go; that’s all that’s to be said of it.
	narrator	Uncle Ebenezer, I can make nothing out of this. You use me like a thief; you hate to have me in this house; you let me see it,
	narrator	every word and every minute: it’s not possible that you can like me; and as for me,
	narrator	I’ve spoken to you as I never thought to speak to any man. Why do you seek to keep me,
	narrator	then? Let me gang back--let me gang back to the friends I have, and that like me!
	uncle ebenezer	Na, na; na, na, I like you fine; we’ll agree fine yet; and for the honour of the house I couldnae let you leave the way ye came.
	uncle ebenezer	Bide here quiet, there’s a good lad; just you bide here quiet a bittie, and ye’ll find that we agree.
	narrator	Well, sir, said I, after I had thought the matter out in silence, I’ll stay awhile.
	narrator	It’s more just I should be helped by my own blood than strangers; and if we don’t agree,
	narrator	I’ll do my best it shall be through no fault of mine.
