	narrator	The next day Mr. Henderland found for me a man who had a boat of his own and was to cross the Linnhe Loch that afternoon into Appin,
	narrator	fishing. Him he prevailed on to take me, for he was one of his flock; and in this way I saved a long day's travel and the price of the two public ferries I must otherwise have passed.
	narrator	It was near noon before we set out; a dark day with clouds, and the sun shining upon little patches.
	narrator	The sea was here very deep and still, and had scarce a wave upon it; so that I must put the water to my lips before I could believe it to be truly salt.
	narrator	The mountains on either side were high, rough and barren, very black and gloomy in the shadow of the clouds,
	narrator	but all silver-laced with little watercourses where the sun shone upon them. It seemed a hard country,
	narrator	this of Appin, for people to care as much about as Alan did. There was but one thing to mention.
	narrator	A little after we had started, the sun shone upon a little moving clump of scarlet close in along the water-side to the north.
	narrator	It was much of the same red as soldiers' coats; every now and then, too, there came little sparks and lightnings,
	narrator	as though the sun had struck upon bright steel. I asked my boatman what it should be,
	narrator	and he answered he supposed it was some of the red soldiers coming from Fort William into Appin,
	narrator	against the poor tenantry of the country. Well, it was a sad sight to me; and whether it was because of my thoughts of Alan,
	narrator	or from something prophetic in my bosom, although this was but the second time I had seen King George's troops,
	narrator	I had no good will to them. At last we came so near the point of land at the entering in of Loch Leven that I begged to be set on shore.
	narrator	My boatman (who was an honest fellow and mindful of his promise to the catechist) would fain have carried me on to Balachulish; but as this was to take me farther from my secret destination,
	narrator	I insisted, and was set on shore at last under the wood of Lettermore (or Lettervore,
	narrator	for I have heard it both ways) in Alan's country of Appin. This was a wood of birches,
	narrator	growing on a steep, craggy side of a mountain that overhung the loch. It had many openings and ferny howes; and a road or bridle track ran north and south through the midst of it,
	narrator	by the edge of which, where was a spring, I sat down to eat some oat-bread of Mr. Henderland's and think upon my situation.
	narrator	Here I was not only troubled by a cloud of stinging midges, but far more by the doubts of my mind.
	narrator	What I ought to do, why I was going to join myself with an outlaw and a would-be murderer like Alan,
	narrator	whether I should not be acting more like a man of sense to tramp back to the south country direct,
	narrator	by my own guidance and at my own charges, and what Mr. Campbell or even Mr. Henderland would think of me if they should ever learn my folly and presumption: these were the doubts that now began to come in on me stronger than ever.
	narrator	As I was so sitting and thinking, a sound of men and horses came to me through the wood; and presently after,
	narrator	at a turning of the road, I saw four travellers come into view. The way was in this part so rough and narrow that they came single and led their horses by the reins.
	narrator	The first was a great, red-headed gentleman, of an imperious and flushed face, who carried his hat in his hand and fanned himself,
	narrator	for he was in a breathing heat. The second, by his decent black garb and white wig,
	narrator	I correctly took to be a lawyer. The third was a servant, and wore some part of his clothes in tartan,
	narrator	which showed that his master was of a Highland family, and either an outlaw or else in singular good odour with the Government,
	narrator	since the wearing of tartan was against the Act. If I had been better versed in these things,
	narrator	I would have known the tartan to be of the Argyle (or Campbell) colours. This servant had a good-sized portmanteau strapped on his horse,
	narrator	and a net of lemons (to brew punch with) hanging at the saddle-bow; as was often enough the custom with luxurious travellers in that part of the country.
	narrator	As for the fourth, who brought up the tail, I had seen his like before, and knew him at once to be a sheriff's officer.
	narrator	I had no sooner seen these people coming than I made up my mind (for no reason that I can tell) to go through with my adventure; and when the first came alongside of me,
	narrator	I rose up from the bracken and asked him the way to Aucharn.
	colin roy campbell of glenure	Mungo, there's many a man would think this more of a warning than two pyats. Here am I on my road to Duror on the job ye ken; and here is a young lad starts up out of the bracken,
	colin roy campbell of glenure	and speers if I am on the way to Aucharn.
	mungo	Glenure, this is an ill subject for jesting.
	colin roy campbell of glenure	And what seek ye in Aucharn? James of the Glens, says Glenure, musingly; and then to the lawyer: Is he gathering his people,
	colin roy campbell of glenure	think ye?
	mungo	Anyway, we shall do better to bide where we are, and let the soldiers rally us.
	colin roy campbell of glenure	If you are concerned for me, said I, "I am neither of his people nor yours,
	colin roy campbell of glenure	but an honest subject of King George, owing no man and fearing no man. Why, very well said,
	colin roy campbell of glenure	replies the Factor. But if I may make so bold as ask, what does this honest man so far from his country?
	colin roy campbell of glenure	and why does he come seeking the brother of Ardshiel? I have power here, I must tell you.
	colin roy campbell of glenure	I am King's Factor upon several of these estates, and have twelve files of soldiers at my back.
	narrator	I have heard a waif word in the country, said I, a little nettled, that you were a hard man to drive.
	narrator	He still kept looking at me, as if in doubt. Well,
	mr. henderland	your tongue is bold; but I am no unfriend to plainness. If ye had asked me the way to the door of James Stewart on any other day but this,
	mr. henderland	I would have set ye right and bidden ye God speed. But to-day--eh, Mungo?
	narrator	And he turned again to look at the lawyer. But just as he turned there came the shot of a firelock from higher up the hill; and with the very sound of it Glenure fell upon the road.
	colin roy campbell of glenure	O, I am dead! I am dead! I am dead.
	narrator	The lawyer had caught him up and held him in his arms, the servant standing over and clasping his hands.
	narrator	And now the wounded man looked from one to another with scared eyes, and there was a change in his voice,
	narrator	that went to the heart.
	colin roy campbell of glenure	Take care of yourselves. I am dead.
	narrator	He tried to open his clothes as if to look for the wound, but his fingers slipped on the buttons.
	narrator	With that he gave a great sigh, his head rolled on his shoulder, and he passed away.
	narrator	The lawyer said never a word, but his face was as sharp as a pen and as white as the dead man's; the servant broke out into a great noise of crying and weeping,
	narrator	like a child; and I, on my side, stood staring at them in a kind of horror.
	narrator	The sheriff's officer had run back at the first sound of the shot, to hasten the coming of the soldiers.
	narrator	At last the lawyer laid down the dead man in his blood upon the road, and got to his own feet with a kind of stagger.
	narrator	I believe it was his movement that brought me to my senses; for he had no sooner done so than I began to scramble up the hill,
	narrator	crying out, "The murderer! the murderer!" So little a time had elapsed, that when I got to the top of the first steepness,
	narrator	and could see some part of the open mountain, the murderer was still moving away at no great distance.
	narrator	He was a big man, in a black coat, with metal buttons, and carried a long fowling-piece.
	narrator	Here! I see him!
	alan breck	I see him!
	narrator	At that the murderer gave a little, quick look over his shoulder, and began to run.
	narrator	The next moment he was lost in a fringe of birches; then he came out again on the upper side,
	narrator	where I could see him climbing like a jackanapes, for that part was again very steep; and then he dipped behind a shoulder,
	narrator	and I saw him no more. All this time I had been running on my side,
	narrator	and had got a good way up, when a voice cried upon me to stand. I was at the edge of the upper wood,
	narrator	and so now, when I halted and looked back, I saw all the open part of the hill below me.
	narrator	The lawyer and the sheriff’s officer were standing just above the road, crying and waving on me to come back; and on their left,
	narrator	the red-coats, musket in hand, were beginning to struggle singly out of the lower wood. "Why should I come back?"
	narrator	I cried. "Come you on!"
	mungo	Ten pounds if ye take that lad! He's an accomplice. He was posted here to hold us in talk.
	narrator	At that word (which I could hear quite plainly, though it was to the soldiers and not to me that he was crying it) my heart came in my mouth with quite a new kind of terror.
	narrator	Indeed, it is one thing to stand the danger of your life, and quite another to run the peril of both life and character.
	narrator	The thing, besides, had come so suddenly, like thunder out of a clear sky, that I was all amazed and helpless.
	narrator	The soldiers began to spread, some of them to run, and others to put up their pieces and cover me; and still I stood.
	alan breck	Jouk[18] in here among the trees," said a voice close by.
	narrator	Indeed, I scarce knew what I was doing, but I obeyed; and as I did so,
	narrator	I heard the firelocks bang and the balls whistle in the birches. Just inside the shelter of the trees I found Alan Breck standing,
	narrator	with a fishing-rod. He gave me no salutation; indeed it was no time for civilities; only "Come!"
	narrator	says he, and set off running along the side of the mountain towards Balachulish; and I,
	narrator	like a sheep, to follow him. Now we ran among the birches; now stooping behind low humps upon the mountain-side; now crawling on all fours among the heather.
	narrator	The pace was deadly: my heart seemed bursting against my ribs; and I had neither time to think nor breath to speak with.
	narrator	Only I remember seeing with wonder, that Alan every now and then would straighten himself to his full height and look back; and every time he did so,
	narrator	there came a great far-away cheering and crying of the soldiers. Quarter of an hour later,
	narrator	Alan stopped, clapped down flat in the heather, and turned to me.
	alan breck	Now," said he, "it's earnest. Do as I do, for your life.
	narrator	And at the same speed, but now with infinitely more precaution, we traced back again across the mountain-side by the same way that we had come,
	narrator	only perhaps higher; till at last Alan threw himself down in the upper wood of Lettermore,
	narrator	where I had found him at the first, and lay, with his face in the bracken,
	narrator	panting like a dog. My own sides so ached, my head so swam, my tongue so hung out of my mouth with heat and dryness,
	narrator	that I lay beside him like one dead.
